---
layout: manual
title: 4.0.x

weight: 98
type: docs

sitemap:
  changefreq: never
---

## XLT 4.0.5

This section lists and documents all improvements and important fixes
for Xceptance LoadTest 4.0.5. Registered customers can access an
overview of changes and the latest roadmap at the [XLT Information
Center](https://lab.xceptance.de/versions/35).

### Improvements

#### Script Developer supports Firefox 4 (\#1220)

Firefox 4 is finally available, so the XLT Script Developer also
supports this version now. Currently, Script Developer runs on Firefox
v3.5, v3.6, and v4.0.

#### Test data variables are resolved recursively now (\#1237)

When resolving test data variables, the Script Developer and the XLT
framework both work recursively now. Thus, if the value of a test data
variable `${foo}` contains another variable `${bar}`, this variable will
also be resolved, and so on. This way, variables can be defined based on
other variables.

#### In-place editing of modules (\#1239, \#1249)

Modules called from other scripts can be expanded to see what they are
doing, but editing steps inside the expanded module was not possible.
Instead, the module had to be opened explicitly and the user had to
locate the step to be modified once again. This process is much more
convenient now as the Script Developer will open the module and the
respective step editor dialog for you when double-clicking a step in an
expanded module. Likewise, steps in the called module can be
enabled/disabled from the calling script.

#### Testing assertions while editing (\#1240)

The command editor dialog already provides a *Find* button to check
whether the entered element locator indeed locates the right element on
the current page. For assert/waitFor commands, there is an *Evaluate*
button now, which executes the command’s condition with the current
page, so the user can immediately check whether the entered text pattern
indeed matches a certain text on the page. While not necessary for
simple text patterns, this is a big help to get advanced `regexp:` or
`glob:` text matching patterns right, without the need to let the test
case run over and over again.

### Bug Fixes

#### Clicking a child element of an anchor did not trigger the anchor (\#1182)

When a *child* element of an anchor element was clicked (instead of the
anchor itself), the framework did not trigger the anchor, i.e. the URL
in the anchor’s `href` attribute was not loaded.

#### Command `assertPageSize` always succeeded (\#1214)

Replay of the `assertPageSize` command via the XLT framework succeeded
all the time due to an incorrect update of the appropriate counter.

#### Missing vertical scroll bar in Module Details dialog (\#1221)

When editing modules with many parameters some of them were not
displayed since there was no vertical scroll bar.

#### Sometimes wrong XPath element locators recorded (\#1222)

When recording clicks on elements contained in anchor elements, the
respective XPath locator was not always determined correctly.

#### Inserting a module by drag&drop placed it at the wrong position (\#1223)

When inserting a module via drag&drop to another script, the module was
placed at the wrong position if it was dropped right after an *expanded*
module.

#### Strange script editor behavior (\#1226)

The script editor showed weird behavior when scripts still refer to
renamed/no longer existing modules. If only one module in the library
has such a dangling reference, it was not possible to drag&drop/add a
module to another script any more (as the list of available modules in
the module call dialog was empty). Furthermore, if a script with a
dangling reference was open in a tab, scripts in other tabs could not be
edited properly.

#### Text assertions behaved differently in Script Developer and framework (\#1228)

The assertion commands

-   assertText
-   assertNotText
-   waitForText
-   waitForNotText

behaved differently in Script Developer and framework when they were
used with *invisible* elements. While the Script Developer assumed the
text of an invisible element to always be the empty string, the
framework always threw an exception when checking invisible elements.
Now the framework uses the same strategy as the Script Developer.

#### OK button in Module Details dialog disabled (\#1230)

Pressing the OK button in the Module Dialog was not possible in some
cases (addition/removal of module parameters) due to an incorrect update
of the internal error state of the dialog.

#### Test data management was broken (\#1231, \#1232, \#1236, \#1251)

When opening the Test Data Management dialog multiple times in a row,
the test data values changed unexpectedly in some cases. For example,
placeholders in a value were magically replaced when opening the dialog
the second time.

#### Assertion failure message needs parameter resolution (\#1248)

When an assertion fails, the Script Developer displays an appropriate
error message. However, if the assertion command contains test data
placeholders, they were shown as is, which is not very helpful to
understand why the assertion failed. Now any placeholder in the message
text is resolved.

## XLT 4.0.4

This section lists and documents all important fixes for Xceptance
LoadTest 4.0.4. Registered customers can access an overview of changes
and the latest roadmap at the [XLT Information
Center](https://lab.xceptance.de/versions/34).

### Bug Fixes

#### Double-clicking a module opened the wrong dialog (\#1199)

It happened that double-clicking a module call in a script did not open
the module call in the editor dialog, but the first command/action in
that module.

#### Base URL not recorded (\#1206)

When recording a new test case, the current web site’s base URL was not
set at the test case.

#### Wrong default base URL displayed (\#1207)

The displayed default base URL was not always the one associated with
the current test case.

#### Frames not handled correctly when recording (\#1211)

When recording interactions on a page that contains at least two frames,
the recorded `selectFrame` commands were not preceded by proper
`selectWindow` commands, so replaying the test case failed as the player
tried to locate the frame inside the other frame instead of locating the
frame inside the top-level window.

#### Copy&paste of a command using test data variables is incomplete (\#1213)

When copy&pasting a command with externalized test data (e.g.
`${userId}`) from one script to another script, the command was
inserted, but the placeholder did not have a value. Now the placeholder
is resolved *before* copying the command, i.e. the Script Developer will
*not* automatically create a corresponding test data mapping in the new
script. If it makes sense to externalize the value for the new script as
well, this has to be done explicitly.

## XLT 4.0.3

This section lists and documents all important fixes for Xceptance
LoadTest 4.0.3. Registered customers can access an overview of changes
and the latest roadmap at the [XLT Information
Center](https://lab.xceptance.de/versions/33).

### Improvements

#### Replay base URL could not be changed without saving the test script (\#1198)

In order to replay an existing test script against another server, one
can use the base URL select box to switch to the new server. Formerly,
the selected base URL was saved to the script and replaced the original
base URL (as determined during recording). Now that URL is handled as a
*transient* override to the base URL stored in the script file when
replaying the script. To edit the original/default base URL (and make
the changes permanent), use the *Test Script Details* dialog.

### Bug Fixes

#### Invalid wrapper class code if no package is defined (\#1195)

If the default package name field in the Script Developer *Settings*
dialog was left empty, the generated wrapper classes contained an empty
package statement (instead of no statement), which does not compile.
This has been fixed.

#### Copy&paste of a command using test data variables is incomplete (\#1196)

When copy&pasting a command with externalized test data (e.g.
`${userId}`) to the same script, the placeholder was copied to the new
command, but was not linked to a value. Fixed now.

#### Implicit waiting for an element broken in Script Developer (\#1197)

When trying to locate an element during test case replay, both the
Script Developer and the framework repeat the look-up (for only a few
times/a very short period) until the element was found, otherwise an
error is generated. This implicit waiting process was broken in the
Script Developer and is fixed now.

## XLT 4.0.2

This section lists and documents all important fixes for Xceptance
LoadTest 4.0.2. Registered customers can access an overview of changes
and the latest roadmap at the [XLT Information
Center](https://lab.xceptance.de/versions/32).

### Improvements

#### Asynchronous loading of script library (\#1186)

When Firefox initialized the script developer extension, the script
library was loaded into memory as part of the initialization process.
Depending on the size of the library, this may have taking a while.
During that time, Firefox could not be used. The library is loaded
asynchronously now and will not block Firefox. Additionally the loading
process has been tuned.

#### Skip agent controllers with no URL defined (\#1193)

The set of participating agent controllers is defined in
`mastercontroller.properties`. To (temporarily) remove agent controllers
from this set, it was required to comment out *all* configuration values
for the respective agent controller including the `weight`. Now it is
sufficient to just comment out the line with the (mandatory) `url`
setting.

### Bug Fixes

#### Different values for randomized module parameters (\#1137)

When a random value (e.g. `${RANDOM.string(5)}`) was passed as a
parameter to a script module and used multiple times, a new random value
was for each usage. This is fixed now.

#### No result browser data with exceptions in before/after methods (\#1167)

Depending on the test case implementation, significant parts of a test
scenario can be located in *before* methods, usually tagged with the
@Before annotation. If an exception occurred inside that method (or in a
similar *after* method), the respective XLT session was not marked as
failed. Additionally no result browser data was written to disk and no
directory hint was added to the load test report. This has been fixed.

#### Framework should ignore invisible elements (\#1176, \#1177, \#1178)

When replaying script test cases, the XLT framework did not always
ignore invisible elements when trying to locate an element. However,
interactions with an invisible element are impossible. An exception will
be thrown now and XLT will report an error.

#### XLT cached AJAX responses (\#1188)

When an AJAX request was made *multiple* times during an action, it was
executed only once. For all subsequent invocations, XLT returned the
cached response of the first call. Now XLT correctly executes all calls
without caching the result.

#### Only the first test method in a test class was executed (\#1192)

With added support for data-driven tests, the code assumed that there is
only one test method in each test class. But having just one method is
only a requirement for load test cases. There is no reason to enforce
this restriction for functional tests. The behavior has been changed.

{{% note notitle %}}
If there is a data set file for a test class, *each* method will be
executed for *each* data set in the file. If this is not desired, the
methods to be executed only once have to be moved into a separate test
class.
{{% /note %}}

## XLT 4.0.1

This section lists and documents all important fixes for Xceptance
LoadTest 4.0.1. Registered customers can access an overview of changes
and the latest roadmap at the [XLT Information
Center](https://lab.xceptance.de/versions/30).

### Bug Fixes

#### Missing directory information for failed test runs (\#1151)

In the *Errors* section of the load test report one can find (next to an
exception) the path to a directory with more information (result browser
data). However, the path was only generated for exceptions that
originate from an *Action* class. If the exception was raised from other
places (e.g. the test case class), the directory information was
missing.

#### Sometimes interactions are not recorded (\#1159)

When recording a test case, the Script Developer did not always
recognize an interaction with the current web page. This happened
especially for parts of the page which were added later by an AJAX call.

#### Sometimes interactions are recorded with a wrong target locator (\#1160)

When recording a test case, the Script Developer did not always use the
actual target element of an interaction, but a parent element.

#### ProtocolException: Content-Length header already present (\#1161)

XLT threw a `ProtocolException` when retrying the original request in
response to an authorization request from the server.

#### Script replay may fail in Firefox v3.5.x (\#1173)

When replaying test cases in Firefox v3.5.x, certain commands failed
even though the page was OK. This did not happen if Firefox v3.6.x was
used. This issue was caused by using certain Firefox APIs, which are
available with v3.6.x only.

## XLT 4.0.0

This section lists and documents all new features, improvements, and
important fixes of Xceptance LoadTest 4.0.0. Registered customers can
access an overview of changes and the latest roadmap at the [XLT
Information Center](https://lab.xceptance.de/versions/22).

### Features

#### XLT Script Developer (\#702)

As an alternative to writing test cases in Java, you might also use the
XLT Script Developer to create script test cases. Script test cases are
based on a simple syntax and a reduced set of operations, which makes
them a perfect fit for non-programmers. Except the Script Developer,
which is an extension to Firefox, no other tool is necessary to create,
edit, and manage basic script test cases.

{{< image src="user-manual/ScriptDev_MainWindow-small.png" large="user-manual/ScriptDev_MainWindow.png" >}}
XLT Script Developer
{{< /image >}}

To create a new script test case, the test designer simply uses the
application under test. All interactions with the application are
recorded in the background and stored to an XML script file as a
sequence of script commands. While recording, assertion commands to
validate the web pages may be inserted manually. From the Script
Developer, script test cases can be replayed in Firefox at any time to
quickly check whether the test case still runs successfully.

Existing script test cases can be modified later on, for example, to add
new or delete obsolete commands. Common command sequences, which could
be reused in other test cases as well, can be refactored to
parameterizable script modules. Finally, any recorded value can be
extracted out of the script into a test data file to separate test data
from script code.

Script files can also be run outside of the browser, via the XLT
framework, which simulates a head-less browser. This mode is suitable
for unattended test case execution, during functional or load tests.
When saving scripts, the Script Developer also creates JUnit test case
classes as “wrappers” around script test cases, which serve as a bridge
between the XLT framework and the script world. This way, from the
framework’s point of view, script test cases are in no way different
from test cases written in Java.

Script test cases are strictly linear and provide a reduced set of
commands only. However, an XML script test case can also be exported as
plain Java code. This opens the world of a real programming language
with all its features to realize advanced test scenarios.

In contrast to the *Script Recorder* in XLT v3.x, the *Script Developer*
does not emit *action* classes any longer, but generates one Java class
for each test case or module. If you prefer structuring your test cases
using action classes, you can install and use the old Script Recorder as
it runs side-by-side with the new Script Developer in Firefox.

#### Access to request and response data (\#471)

Sometimes a test case needs to check whether a certain request was made
in the context of a page and if it were successful, for example, if
correct data was sent to a reporting system. Typically, these types of
requests do not cause the page’s DOM tree to change, so the only way to
check that functionality is to check the requests/responses on the
network layer. To better support such advanced validations, XLT provides
an API to access network data. The XLT sample test suite
`testsuite-pebble` contains examples how to use this API. See the action
classes `Login` and `Homepage`.

### Improvements

#### Additional API to log an event (\#91)

Now custom events can be logged with a single line of code:

```java
Session.logEvent(eventName, message);
```

#### Updated WebDriver and added examples (\#627)

The WebDriver library, which is now part of Selenium, has been updated
to version 2.0 Alpha 6. Additional XLT demo scenario examples for
IE/Chrome/Firefox have been added.

#### The amount of test result data to be downloaded can be limited (\#678)

When a larger load test fails with too many errors, it can be time and
bandwidth consuming to download the test results from the agents because
of all the error output. Now the user can specify the amount of data to
be downloaded by selecting the respective option in a new console menu:

1.  measurements, result browsers, and agent log files (i.e. *all*
    available data)
2.  measurements and result browsers, but no log files
3.  measurements only

#### Integrated JRuby 1.5.1 (\#754)

The JRuby libraries have been updated to v1.5.1.

#### Common JavaDoc for XLT and HtmlUnit (\#780)

When hovering over a class or method with the mouse, Eclipse is able to
show the corresponding JavaDoc, if the location of the JavaDoc has been
configured properly. Since the XLT JAR file contains both XLT and
HtmlUnit code, but the respective JavaDoc locations were different, one
could either have the JavaDoc of one or the other. Now XLT ships with a
common JavaDoc, so Eclipse can show information for both XLT and
HtmlUnit at the same time.

#### Name of test-specific properties file can be passed on the command line (\#782)

To choose a certain test configuration, it was necessary to edit the
file `<testsuite>/config/project.properties` to set the property
`com.xceptance.xlt.testPropertiesFile` to point to the right
test-specific configuration file. As an alternative to configuration
editing, it is now possible to pass the name of the test-specific
configuration file on the mastercontroller’s command line:

```bash
mastercontroller.sh -auto -report -testPropertiesFile loadtest_1000users.properties
```

#### Master controller properties can be overridden with command line options (\#784)

In order to a better support a series of automated load tests, it’s
possible to override certain properties (usually contained in
`<xlt>/config/mastercontroller.properties`) on the master controller’s
command line. For example, two consecutive load tests with different
test suites could be run this way now:

```bash
./mastercontroller.sh -auto -Dcom.xceptance.xlt.mastercontroller.testSuitePath=samples/testsuite-pebble  
./mastercontroller.sh -auto -Dcom.xceptance.xlt.mastercontroller.testSuitePath=samples/testsuite-showcases
```

#### HtmlUnit updated to v2.8 (\#881)

The HtmlUnit version integrated into XLT has been updated to v2.8. Go to
[HtmlUnit 2.8 Release
Notes](http://htmlunit.sourceforge.net/changes-report.html#a2.8) to find
out more.

#### Selecting/listing EC2 instance by tag (\#991)

AWS (Amazon Web Services) added the ability to tag EC2 resources to
simplify the administration of your cloud infrastructure. As a form of
meta data, tags can be used to create user-friendly names and improve
coordination between multiple users.

The XLT EC2 administration tool `ec2_admin` features an additional menu
which lets you select your EC2 resources based on the tag name. For
example, when listing running instances, you can use filtering to reduce
the set of instances shown:

```bash
Filter instances by one or more tags:  
(0) <none>  
(1) Name=CustomerA  
(2) Name=CustomerB  
(3) Type=WebServer  
(4) Type=AppServer  
=> 2 4
```

#### AJAX call mode configurable (\#1088)

HtmlUnit’s web client can be configured whether AJAX calls are to be
executed synchronously or asynchronously. By default, XLT configures the
web client to always make AJAX calls synchronous if they were started
from the test case thread. This way, test case execution waits until the
result of the AJAX call is processed, making the test very deterministic
and free of wait-for-something-to-appear constructs.

However, under certain circumstances, turning asynchronous AJAX calls
into synchronous ones might break expectations in the respective
JavaScript code, leading to wrong results. In these cases, we have to
execute AJAX calls exactly as requested by the JavaScript programmer.
This can be done with a line of code, but unfortunately not in
script-based test cases. That’s why the default AJAX behavior is
configurable via the framework property
`com.xceptance.xlt.js.ajax.executionMode` now. The property can have the
following values:

-   **resync** - synchronous if the AJAX call originates from the test
    case thread, asynchronous otherwise (the “classic” way)
-   **normal** - as requested in the AJAX call
-   **sync** - always synchronous
-   **async** - always asynchronous

### Bug Fixes

This sections covers all important defects that have been fixed with
this release.

#### Not all images referenced by CSS are downloaded (\#661)

XLT provides different modes to scan CSS rules for images to download.
When using the smart mode “onDemand”, not all images which should be
downloaded were actually downloaded. Fixed now.

#### Styles for output devices are not handled separately (\#676)

Some web pages specify separate styles to be used with different output
devices. Reading the `media` attribute, the browser selects the style
that should be applied. In HtmlUnit, always all styles were applied. Now
only `screen` media rules are processed to solve this problem.

#### Credentials in URLs are ignored (\#677)

In case credentials are specified as part of a URL, this information
will now be used to automatically answer authorization requests (the
same way as real browsers do).

#### Changed caching behavior (\#690)

The caching behavior of XLT has been fixed to ensure that non-cacheable
resources on a page are not loaded multiple times per action, but only
once.

#### HtmlUnit trims class attributes (\#1048)

It can happen that class attributes carry extra whitespace. When
recording tests with the Script Developer, you will get an XPath like
that:

```bash
xpath=/html/body/h1[@class=“Header ”]
```

Replaying the test via the XLT framework will not longer fail now.
Trimming the attribute values was explicitly patched into HtmlUnit
because of \#491. However, beginning with v3.5, Firefox does not
automatically trim the value of the class attribute any longer. Since
the minimum version of Firefox XLT supports is v3.5, the fix for \#491
is no longer needed.

#### Result browser does not work with Chrome (\#1131)

When viewing result browser files with more recent versions of Chrome,
the list of downloaded pages and responses was empty. Fixed now.

### API Changes

API changes in XLT 4.0.0 result from changes made by HtmlUnit 2.8.
Please consult the [HtmlUnit 2.8 Release
Notes](http://htmlunit.sourceforge.net/changes-report.html#a2.8) for the
latest changes. Because XLT skipped version 2.6 and 2.7 of HtmlUnit,
changes introduced in these versions apply as well.

### JDK Compatibility

Beginning with v4.0.0, XLT requires a Java virtual machine 6 or above to
run. Java 5 is not supported any longer. The reason is the [end-of-life
announcement for JDK
5](http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/index-jdk5-jsp-142662.html).
If you require JDK 5 compatibility, please let us know.
