---
title: 4.12.x

weight: 85
type: docs

sitemap:
  changefreq: never
---

## XLT 4.12.3

### Load Testing

#### ClassNotFoundException with JRE 9+ when creating report with external data (\#3490)

When creating a load test report, data from external sources may be
included. This works fine with JRE 8, but not with later JREs as certain
Java EE libraries have been removed from the standard JRE package,
starting with JRE 9. Now XLT comes bundled with the needed libraries.

### Test Framework

#### Support whitespace in browser command line arguments (\#2998)

XLT can manage the life cycle of web drivers and web browsers on your
behalf, but you may configure many aspects in the settings of your test
suite. This is also true for the list of command line arguments that
need to be passed to the underlying browser. So far, command line
arguments were not permitted to contain whitespace. However, for some
browser options this is essential, for instance Chrome’s `--user-agent`
option. Now, any browser command line argument parameter may contain
whitespace if the entire argument is quoted properly using either single
or double quotes:

```bash
xlt.webDriver.chrome.browserArgs = --headless
“--user-agent=Mozilla/5.0 (Linux; Android 4.2.1; en-us; Nexus 5
Build/JOP40D) AppleWebKit/535.19 (KHTML, like Gecko)
Chrome/18.0.1025.166 Mobile Safari/535.19”
```

#### Custom default Accept-Language header will be ignored (\#3408)

When using HtmlUnit as the browser, it is possible to programmatically
configure default request headers at a `WebClient` instance. These
headers will then be sent automatically with each and every request.
However, this did not work for the `Accept-Language` header. Fixed now.

#### Page load timings with value 0 in timers.csv (\#3561)

XLT is able to record the browser event timings of Chrome and Firefox.
As any other measurements, these values are stored to the corresponding
`timers.csv` file. However, if a certain browser event did not occur,
for instance because of a timeout, then the file nevertheless contained
a record for that event, but with the value 0. Now a record is written
only if the event did occur at all.

#### Make Xvfb screen size configurable (\#3378)

XLT supports running real browsers in screenless mode with the help of
Xvfb. By default, XLT runs Xvfb with a display size of 1600x1200 and a
color depth of 24 bits. You may now reconfigure these settings as
follows:

```bash
xlt.clientperformance.xvfb.screen = 1920x1080x24
```

#### Security updates for 3rd-party libraries (\#3481)

Some 3rd-party libraries have been updated to latest available version
that include fixes for certain security vulnerabilities.

## XLT 4.12.2

### Test Framework

#### JSON viewer in result browser (\#3316)

When having to deal with huge JSON responses a lot, a more structured
view with expandable/collapsible sections would be helpful. That’s why
the result browser now features a new tab where JSON responses are
displayed in a tree-like view that can also be searched and filtered.

#### Retry failed requests if the root cause indicates a temporary issue (\#3340)

If a request has failed, XLT may automatically retry that request,
provided that the error indicates a temporary issue. For instance,
requests will be retried for a `SocketException` (temporary network
issue), but not for an `SSLProtocolException` (issue looks permanent).
However, if the *root cause* of an issue classified as permanent is
itself temporary, there is no reason not to retry the request in this
situation. The retry mechanism has been changed this way.

#### Log event when a request is retried (\#3344)

When failed requests are automatically retried, this happens under the
hood and unnoticed by the user. However, it would be good to know if
such retries happen sporadically only or rather frequently. To get some
insights, an event with some basic info will now be logged when a
request is about to be retried.

#### Update Jetty (\#3341)

Jetty has been updated to the latest available version 9.4.14.

### Load Testing

#### AWS images with OpenJDK 11

Xceptance provides public AWS machine images with a preconfigured and
ready-to-run XLT. The JDK that is installed in these images has been
updated from OracleJDK 8 to OpenJDK 11.

## XLT 4.12.1

### Test Framework

#### Invalid timestamp in request records (\#3285)

Sometimes our timer recorder extensions for Chrome and Firefox reported
invalid request entries that could not be processed by the report
generator. This could happen for requests that did not complete
(according to WebExtension’s webRequest API) when the browser navigated
away to a new page. Fixed now.

#### Transaction failures in the results when catching exceptions (\#3314)

Sometimes test designers deliberately catch exceptions or assertion
errors in order to continue with an alternative branch in the test case.
This is a valid approach and worked well in previous versions of XLT. If
the test case completes successfully after catching an exception, it
should also be counted as successful in the results. However, since
4.11.0 the transaction may[^1] nevertheless be marked as failed in the
recorded timer data (`timers.csv`). As a consequence, when creating a
load test report from that data, it will list transaction “failures”
that could actually not be observed. Now, transactions are marked as
failed in `timers.csv` only if the transaction really finished with an
exception.

[^1] In case the action that threw the exception happens to be the last
action in the test case.

#### Upgrade to latest WebDriver (\#3266)

Selenium has been updated to the latest version 3.141.59 and
HtmlUnitDriver to version 2.33.3.

### Load Testing

#### Support new AWS data center in Stockholm (\#3307)

Recently, Amazon opened a new data center in Stockholm, Sweden
(eu-north-1). This data center is fully supported in `ec2_admin` now.

## XLT 4.12.0

### Test Framework

#### Request/response ID improvements

Outbound request IDs and inbound response IDs are really helpful when
debugging issues with your Web servers or CDNs. They allow to correlate
requests and responses on both ends of the communication channel. XLT
comes with some enhancements in this area.

**Request ID as part of the User-Agent header** - By default, XLT sends
the request ID as a custom HTTP header. However, many systems are not
able to log request headers other than the `User-Agent` header. Hence,
XLT may now send the request ID also as part of the `User-Agent` header.
This works for the default user agent string and also a customized one.

But note that an ever-changing `User-Agent` value is unusual and might
therefore cause unexpected issues in certain systems. So before you use
this feature, make sure the other system can handle it. Then use the
following new setting to enable this feature:

```bash
com.xceptance.xlt.http.requestId.appendToUserAgent = true
```

**Support different header names for request and response IDs** - So
far, you could only specify a single header name that was used for both,
the outgoing request ID and the incoming response ID. For more
flexibility, you may now specify different header names as follows:

```bash
com.xceptance.xlt.http.requestId.enabled = true
com.xceptance.xlt.http.requestId.headerName = X-XLT-RequestId  
com.xceptance.xlt.http.responseId.enabled = true  
com.xceptance.xlt.http.responseId.headerName = CF-RAY
```

**Record outgoing and incoming ID separately** - Previously, XLT
recorded only one ID to `timers.csv`. This was either the one from the
response or - if no ID was present there - the one from the request.
Since the response ID is often different from XLT’s request ID, you
actually need both IDs for the full picture. That’s why XLT now stores
request and response ID separately to the `timers.csv` files.

#### Enhancements around host name/address resolution

Sometimes a host name does not have a single permanent IP address entry
in DNS, but either it has multiple IP addresses assigned or its single
IP address is changed every couple of seconds. Both approaches are
typical for CDNs which try to load-balance traffic to different servers
this way. These non-standard DNS scenarios also impose new challenges,
especially when load testing or when it comes to debugging certain
network phenomena. XLT has now something in the box to address these
challenges.

**Better load distribution when load-testing sites behind a CDN** -
Address resolution in Java is not perfect in the context of load-testing
sites that are using DNS load-balancing tricks:

1.  Java’s address resolution cache is global to the JVM. When an entry
    expires, it expires for all virtual users in this JVM at the same
    time. As a consequence, if the IP address has changed in DNS in the
    meantime, all traffic generated by this JVM hops from the current
    server to another one almost immediately.
2.  Java does not perform an automatic round-robin for multiple IP
    addresses. Java caches the IP addresses in the order received and
    returns them in the same order for the lifetime of the cache entry.
    This way, the first IP address will typically get all the traffic.

XLT comes with some enhancements to improve the load distribution. To
tackle the first issue, XLT can maintain a separate address resolution
cache for each virtual user. This cache is valid for the lifetime of a
virtual user’s session (i.e. one iteration). This somewhat softens the
transition to the new IP address a bit, as the current session is still
using the old IP address. XLT fixes the second issue by automatically
shuffling the IP addresses so all IPs will be utilized equally.

Enable these features by setting the following properties as needed:

```bash
xlt.dns.cacheAddresses = true
xlt.dns.shuffleAddresses = true
```

**Record the resolved IP address for each request** - In case the DNS
entry for a certain host name is changed frequently and you experience
sporadic request issues, it might be interesting to know which server
was responsible for that very request. That’s why XLT may record the IP
(or multiple IPs) returned by the DNS server for that request. To enable
this feature, set the following property in the test suite
configuration:

```bash
xlt.dns.recordAddresses = true
```

The recorded IP address(es) will be available in the `timers.csv` files
as a new field whose value is a `|`-separated list.

**Use only one IP address for a request even if there are more** - In
case a host name is resolved to more than one IP address, the underlying
*HttpClient* will try one IP after the other until a connection could be
established. This is a silent process, and we will notice issues here if
and only if none of the given IPs could be contacted, because only then
will we see exceptions bubbling up. This might lead to inexplicable
results, especially when total request runtime and socket timings do not
match.

If you suspect issues with one of the servers, but these issues are
masked by the silent fail-over to another server, you can now debug this
much better. Set the following property and XLT will randomly pick a
single IP address from the list of available addresses:

```bash
xlt.dns.pickOneAddressRandomly = true
```

If the server with the chosen IP address has issues, you will spot them
immediately. And, when you combine this property with
`xlt.dns.recordAddresses=true`, you will immediately know which
IP/server instance is the offending one.

#### Other Improvements

**Automatic request retry** - If a request has failed, XLT may
automatically retry that request, provided that the error indicates a
temporary issue. Previously, the retry feature was always effective for
idempotent requests (i.e. *GET*, *PUT* and *DELETE*) and could
optionally be enabled for non-idempotent requests (i.e. *POST* and
*PATCH*). Now, this feature can be enabled or disabled altogether, and
you may also tune the retry count:

```bash
com.xceptance.xlt.http.retry.enabled = true
com.xceptance.xlt.http.retry.nonIdempotentRequests = true  
com.xceptance.xlt.http.retry.count = 3
```

**Requests ordered by start time in result browser** - The requests of
an action are now always ordered by their start time. This removes a
discrepancy between the result browsers generated for *HtmlUnit*-based
tests and client-performance tests with real browsers.

**Chaining of actions of different types** - Starting with XLT 4.12.0,
it is possible to mix and match Web actions of different types in a test
case, for instance `AbstractHtmlPageAction` with
`AbstractLightWeightPageAction`. This allows to use the most appropriate
action for the job, and you can share a common `WebClient` instance - as
you are used to - also between actions of different types. To make this
possible, the constructors of those action classes now take an instance
of `AbstractWebAction` as the previous action instead of an action of
the same class.

{{% note notitle %}}
Make sure you have read the section *Incompatible Changes* below.
{{% /note %}}

**Selenium updated** - Selenium has been updated to latest available
version 3.14.0. Make sure you also update the driver binaries for all
the browsers you want to use in your test cases. See below for a list of
links to download the driver binary for your browser:

-   Chrome/Chromium:
    <a href="http://chromedriver.storage.googleapis.com/index.html" target="_blank">chromedriver</a>
-   Edge:
    <a href="https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=619687" target="_blank">MicrosoftDriverServer.exe</a>
-   Firefox:
    <a href="https://github.com/mozilla/geckodriver/releases" target="_blank">geckodriver</a>
-   Internet Explorer:
    <a href="http://selenium-release.storage.googleapis.com/index.html" target="_blank">IEDriverServer.exe</a>
-   Opera:
    <a href="http://phantomjs.org/download.html" target="_blank">phantomjs</a>

**HtmlUnit updated** - HtmlUnit has been updated as well, namely to
version 2.33.0.

#### Incompatible Changes

**Client-performance driver builders** - Our client-performance Web
drivers `XltChromeDriver` and `XltFirefoxDriver` used to have a method
`builder()` in order to return an instance builder object. Since
Selenium recently added a method with the same name to their drivers, we
had to rename our methods to `xltBuilder()` to avoid the name clash.

**Abstract…PageAction** - In order to allow chaining of actions of
different types, we changed the constructors of `AbstractHtmlPageAction`
and `AbstractLightWeightPageAction` to take instances of class
`AbstractWebAction` as the previous action. Although this change is
source code compatible, you will need to recompile your code once you
have upgraded to XLT 4.12.0. Typically, this happens automatically for
regular test suites. But in case you have created a library or framework
on top of XLT, you will need to rebuild it and release a new version of
it.

### Load Testing

#### Load Test Report Generator

**Report generator much faster** - Due to various improvements and
optimizations, the report generator is much faster now, especially when
reading and processing `timers.csv` files.

**Request processing rule improvements** - When renaming requests via
request processing rules (aka request merge rules), the new name of the
request typically contains placeholders, such as <code>{n:0}</code>,
that should be substituted with (parts of) a certain request attribute.
These placeholders have got a new syntax variant: <code>{x}</code>, with
*x* being one of the usual type codes (`a`, `c`, `n`, `r`, `s`, `t` and
`u`). This placeholder stands for the *full text* of the respective
request attribute and is always available, without having to specify a
corresponding regular expression to extract the text. This greatly
simplifies the definition of request processing rules where the entire
request attribute (and not only parts of it) is to be inserted into the
new name.

```bash
# old style  
com.xceptance.xlt.reportgenerator.requestMergeRules.30.newName = {n:0} JS  
com.xceptance.xlt.reportgenerator.requestMergeRules.30.namePattern = .*  
com.xceptance.xlt.reportgenerator.requestMergeRules.30.urlPattern = \\.js$

# new style  
com.xceptance.xlt.reportgenerator.requestMergeRules.30.newName = {n} JS  
com.xceptance.xlt.reportgenerator.requestMergeRules.30.urlPattern = \\.js$
```

This new placeholder syntax is especially useful for inserting the
request name built so far (after processing the preceding rules), but
might come in handy for the other attributes as well.

**Faster request name cleaning** - Request names usually carry an index,
such as “FooBar.1” or “FooBar.1.27”. During report generation, the index
part is typically cut off from the name. Previously, this happened via a
special request processing rule that had to be explicitly specified.
This rule is not necessary any longer as it became a built-in feature of
XLT, speeding up report generation.

First, check your code to assure that your request/action names don’t
contain a period character. Then, check the stripping rule. If it has no
other effect besides stripping off the indexes, you can simply delete
it. Otherwise, you would need to move the extra functionality to another
rule. Finally, enable the automatic index stripping feature by setting
this property:

```bash
com.xceptance.xlt.reportgenerator.requests.removeIndexes = true
```

You may set this property either in `<xlt>/config/reportgenerator.properties` so that it becomes effective
for all your test suites, or specifically for a test suite in one of its
configuration files, for example in
`<testsuite>/config/project.properties`.

#### Load Test Report

**Page load timings on a separate tab** - When using `XltChromeDriver`
or `XltFirefoxDriver`, XLT collects page load timings obtained from the
underlying browsers. Previously, they were shown in the *Custom Timers*
section of the load test report. From now on, you will find these values
in the new *Page Load Timings* section. This brings more clarity for
both, the page load timings and your regular custom timers.

In this course, we introduced the new type code `P` for page load timing
entries in the `timers.csv` files. Please keep this in mind when
analyzing raw result data with tools like `awk`, `grep`, etc.

**Ignore the hash when calculating the number of distinct URLs** - When
hovering over the name of a request in the data table of the load test
report, a tooltip is shown that lists 10 exemplary URLs and the total
number of distinct URLs. Since the fragment/hash is a client thing that
won’t be transmitted to the server anyway, the calculation of the number
of distinct URLs has been changed to simply ignore the fragment part of
a given URL.

#### ec2\_admin

**Support new instance types** - Our command line tool `ec2_admin` now
supports also instance types of the 5th generation, in particular *c5*,
*r5*, and *m5*.

### Supported Java Versions

The XLT framework and also the load testing tools have been made
compatible with Java 11. For the time being, we support both Java 8 and
11 as runtime environments for XLT.
