---
layout: manual
title: 4.4.x

weight: 94
type: docs

sitemap:
  changefreq: never
---

## XLT 4.4.5

This section lists and documents all improvements and important fixes of
Xceptance LoadTest 4.4.5. Registered customers can see an overview of
changes and view the current roadmap in the <a href="https://lab.xceptance.de/versions/88" target="_blank">XLT Information Center</a>.

### Script Developer

#### Support of Firefox 35 (\#2309)

Since version 35, Firefox enforces stricter security checks. As a
consequence, all the `*eval` commands (`storeEval`, `assertEval`, etc.)
did always return `undefined` as their result when being replayed. This
has been fixed.

## XLT 4.4.4

This section lists and documents all improvements and important fixes of
Xceptance LoadTest 4.4.4. Registered customers can see an overview of
changes and view the current roadmap in the <a href="https://lab.xceptance.de/versions/86" target="_blank">XLT Information Center</a>.

### Script Developer

#### Support of Firefox 34 (\#2291)

Script Developer has been made compatible with Firefox 34, so Script
Developer runs on Firefox 24 ESR up to 34 now.

#### Inconsistency between Web drivers and Script Developer when asserting text (\#2285)

When asserting the text of a visible element (for example, a `<div>`
element) which has both visible and invisible sub-elements, there was a
slight inconsistency between Web drivers and Script Developer. While the
Web drivers returned the text of the visible sub-elements only, Script
Developer additionally returned the text of the invisible sub-elements.
Since a script test case should run unchanged with both the Web drivers
and Script Developer, we had to adjust Script Developer so that
invisible elements now get ignored.

#### Incorrect determination of element visibility (\#2290)

The algorithm to determine if a given element is visible or not needed
some improvements. For instance, it sometimes treated ordinary input
fields in an HTML form element as invisible, although they were not.
This also had negative side effects, such as doubling the characters
that had been typed into those input fields.

#### Single quotes in DOM locator causes selectFrame command to fail (\#2277)

In case the DOM frame locator contained single quotes instead of double
quotes (e.g. `dom=frames['myFrame']`), replaying the `selectFrame`
command failed in Script Developer.

#### Incorrect output when exporting modules to Java (\#2280)

When exporting script modules to Java, certain element locators were
translated to malformed locator strings in Java. This happened for
element locators containing double quotes and at least one module
parameter. Fixed.

#### Test data cannot be removed anymore (\#2292)

Definitions of global/package-local/test-case-specific test data items
could not be removed any longer via the editor dialog. Although the
removal of any test data row seemed to work visually, it actually did
not get removed and was still there when opening the dialog again.
Fixed.

### Load Testing

#### ec2\_admin breaks if region eu-central-1 is used (\#2269)

Recently, Amazon introduced the new AWS region *eu-central-1* in
Frankfurt, Germany. To fully support this region, an update of the AWS
libraries used in our `ec2_admin` tool was required.

### Result Browser

#### Request parameter named ‘cookie’ formatted like Cookie request header (\#2252)

In XLT 4.4.3, we added some logic to present Cookie request header
values in a more readable format. Unfortunately, the same logic was also
applied to request parameters named “cookie”, which does not make sense.
Fixed.

### Framework

#### WebDriver upgraded to latest available version (\#2255)

WebDriver/Selenium has been upgraded to version 2.44.0.

#### Regular GET used instead of Conditional GET when revalidating a resource (\#2253)

In case the caching time of a cacheable resource has expired, the cached
resource needs to be revalidated using a Conditional GET call to the
server. However, this did not work reliably. Sometimes the resource was
re-requested using a normal GET. This should never happen once the
resource is in the browser cache. Fixed.

#### Content encoding/length headers not shown in result browser for compressed responses (\#2254)

Web servers may deliver resources in compressed form (gzip/deflate). In
this case, the server will add a `Content-Encoding` response header to
specify the chosen compression method. However, this header (and also
the `Content-Length` header) was missing in the result browser, so you
could not check if and how responses were compressed. Fixed.

#### Certain DOM element locators may cause the selectFrame command to fail (\#2274)

When using certain DOM element locators, e.g. 
`dom=frames['my_frame'].frameElement`, as the target for the
`selectFrame` command, replay worked fine in Script Developer, but
failed in XLT. This was caused by an incorrect restriction regarding the
accepted format of a DOM locator. Fixed now.

#### Timer recorder does not record request timings with FF 32+ (\#2282)

When running `FirefoxDriver` with client performance measurement
enabled, XLT uses a Firefox add-on to record the request and page load
timings. Unfortunately, request timings were not recorded anymore when
using Firefox 32 and newer. Fixed.

## XLT 4.4.3

This section lists and documents all improvements and important fixes of
Xceptance LoadTest 4.4.3. Registered customers can see an overview of
changes and view the current roadmap in the <a href="https://lab.xceptance.de/versions/85" target="_blank">XLT Information Center</a>.

### Script Developer

#### Support of Firefox 33 (\#2246)

Script Developer has been made compatible with Firefox 33, so Script
Developer runs on Firefox 24 ESR up to 33 now.

#### Window layout broken (\#2230)

In case Script Developer’s information/log panel had never been resized
manually before and a lot of log entries were created, the Script
Developer window could grow beyond the screen height and was not really
usable any longer. Fixed.

### Load Test Report

#### Request runtime charts on the *Overview* and *Requests* page were different (\#2243)

Although they show the same data, the request runtime chart on the
*Overview* page did not exactly match the summary chart on the
*Requests* page. In the chart on the *Overview* page, request runtime
values were drawn at the time the request started but should be drawn at
the time the request ended. Fixed.

#### Tables for external data looked weird (\#2236)

In newer browsers, data tables for external data sometimes looked
corrupted as the header row did not always appear at the top of the
table but in the middle or at the end. This has been fixed.

#### Rows in tables for external data are not auto-sorted any longer (\#2237)

The load test report may also contain data from external sources. Until
now the respective data tables auto-sorted the rows by value name.
However, this may override the desired order as configured in file
`externaldataconfig.xml`. Now the values are always listed in the
configured order.

### Result Browser

#### Request body shown also in the POST parameter section (\#2227)

In case the body of a POST request contained data in a format other than
form parameters (JSON, for example), that data was shown in the *Request
Body* tab only. Since this tab is not used very often, the data could be
easily missed. Such POST data is now shown (abbreviated) in the
*Request/Response Information* tab as well and works as a friendly
reminder to have a closer look at the *Request Body* tab.

#### Cookies separated more clearly (\#2238)

For each request, the result browser shows the cookies sent to the
server as a list of cookie name/value pairs separated by new lines.
Especially, if the cookie values were too long to fit on a single line
and contained cryptic characters (hex code, etc.), it was hard to tell
where one cookie ends and where the next starts. Now the cookies are
separated visually by separator lines. Furthermore, the cookie name is
colored and clearly separated from its value. All cookies are also
sorted by name (case-insensitive) now. All of this makes it easier to
keep track of the several cookies that have been sent over wire.

### Framework

#### WebDriver upgraded to latest available version (\#2224)

WebDriver/Selenium has been upgraded to version 2.43.1. This update
fixes compatibility issues in FirefoxDriver that occurred with Firefox
32.

#### Switching off compressed responses did not work (\#2100)

The setting `com.xceptance.xlt.http.gzip = true|false` controls whether
the server should deliver responses compressed (gzip/deflate) or
uncompressed. However, even if the switch was set to *false*, responses
were always delivered compressed. Fixed now.

#### Cleanup of downloaded responses interfered with caching (\#2244)

XLT caches downloaded responses like a real browser so that subsequent
requests to the same resource in the same session will be served from
the cache. If a response body has a size of more than 500 KB, HtmlUnit
stores it in a temporary file instead of keeping it in memory. So far,
so good. However, in case of JS or CSS data, HtmlUnit actively removed
these files once it was done parsing/compiling them. This jeopardized
any caching effort, because trying to read the data for subsequent
requests caused *FileNotFoundExceptions* to be thrown. Fixed.

## XLT 4.4.2

This section lists and documents all improvements and important fixes of
Xceptance LoadTest 4.4.2. Registered customers can see an overview of
changes and view the current roadmap in the <a href="https://lab.xceptance.de/versions/84" target="_blank">XLT Information Center</a>.

### Script Developer

{{% note notitle %}}
In case you have added Script Developer to one of your Firefox
toolbars, you will notice that the toolbar item is missing after the
update. The reason is that we had to change the IDs of some UI
elements, so Firefox won’t be able to find a toolbar item using the
old ID any longer. To get the toolbar item back, simply open the
Customize view and drag Script Developer onto the toolbar.
{{% /note %}}

#### Support Firefox 32 (\#2218)

Script Developer has been made compatible with Firefox 32, so Script
Developer runs on Firefox 24 ESR up to 32 now.

#### Page unload events in unrelated tabs accidentally handled by the recorder (\#2178)

In case that other, unrelated tabs happened to be open in your browser
while you were recording a script in a certain tab, a page unload event
triggered in any of the other tabs (caused by auto-refreshing pages, for
example) was accidentally handled by Script Developer. Fixed.

#### Click on an anchor did not always trigger a page load (\#2188)

In rare situations, clicking an anchor did not cause the new page to be
loaded. This happened when the anchor being clicked was immediately
removed from the DOM in the blur event handler of another element. Focus
handling and page loading have been fine-tuned so that this special
issue should not occur any longer.

#### Exported Java code did not compile in case of same-named modules (\#2201)

Script modules that reside in different packages can have the same name.
When a test case that calls these modules was exported to Java
(Scripting API), the resulting Java code did not compile since the
generated variable names were not unique. Fixed.

### Load Test Environment

#### Interrupting a user thread may not abort the current transaction (\#2193)

There are two situations during a load test in which the thread
representing a specific virtual user is interrupted: first, when the
current transaction takes too long to complete, and second, at the end
of the shutdown period. The interrupt is the signal to abort the current
transaction gracefully. In case of script-based test cases (XML or
exported to Java), interrupting the thread did not work reliably. Fixed.

#### Aborting a user thread at the end of the load test treated as error (\#2194)

At the end of the shutdown period, any still running user thread is
interrupted to abort its current transaction gracefully. In case of
script-based test cases (XML or exported to Java), the XLT framework
treated the interrupt as an error. As a consequence, a result browser
was written to disk, and the error was also visible in the load test
report. However, aborting a transaction at the end of a load test is not
an error condition, so we should not see an error here. Fixed.

### Framework

#### Requests missing in the client performance logs (\#2212)

WebDriver-based test cases can also be run with the enhanced
FirefoxDriver (“firefox\_clientperformance”) to get metrics about the
executed requests and some special events. Unfortunately, data on the
requests triggered for embedded documents (frames) was not captured.
Fixed.

## XLT 4.4.1

This section lists and documents all improvements and important fixes of
Xceptance LoadTest 4.4.1. Registered customers can see an overview of
changes and view the current roadmap in the <a href="https://lab.xceptance.de/versions/81" target="_blank">XLT Information Center</a>.

### Script Developer

#### Impossible to choose an item from select boxes (\#2199)

When running Script Developer in Firefox 31, it was not possible to
choose an item from drop-down select boxes. This issue did not appear
with previous versions of Firefox. This specific compatibility problem
is fixed now.

#### Avoid suffixing an action class name when not needed (\#2177)

When exporting scripts to Java (using the Action API flavor), the names
of the generated action classes have to be unique to avoid compile
errors. This is done by suffixing the name with an integer in case of a
name clash. Previously, the code generator did only take the action
names into account when deciding whether or not it is necessary to
suffix an action name. Now conflicting action names are suffixed only if
the corresponding actions reside in the same package.

### Load Testing

#### Error numbers on the overview page are not color-coded (\#2197)

The section *Performance Summary* of the load test report also shows the
number of errors counted for transactions/actions/requests/custom timers
and their percentage. In case there indeed were errors, these values are
meant to be displayed in red. While this was already the case for the
percentage values, it did not work for the absolute counts. Fixed now.

#### Limit the precision of the total CPU usage value (\#2190)

The agent machine’s total CPU usage value was logged with an
unnecessarily high precision, such as 16.432632421004513. Now these
values are rounded to two decimal places, i.e. 16.43. This way, we also
save some bytes per line in the load test results.

### Framework

#### Page not loaded if the URL ends with “\#” (\#2176)

In case the target URL of an anchor or form ends with “\#” (an empty
fragment identifier), the target page was not loaded. Fixed.

#### Wrong character encoding used when reading test data files (\#2183)

When the XLT framework loads test data items from `*.properties` files
(global test data, package-level test data), it read them using the
ISO-8859-1 character encoding. Script Developer stores the items as
UTF-8 though, so we got a character soup when replaying script test
cases. Now the framework uses UTF-8 as well.

#### Command storeElementCount has no effect (\#2198)

The script command `storeElementCount` was not completely implemented in
the XLT framework. Fixed now.

## XLT 4.4.0

This section lists and documents all new features and improvements of
Xceptance LoadTest 4.4.0. Registered customers can see an overview of
changes and view the current roadmap in the <a href="https://lab.xceptance.de/versions/68" target="_blank">XLT Information Center</a>.

### Release Overview

XLT 4.4.0 delivers a large set of new and improved functionalities.

**New commands** are available in Script Developer and the XLT
framework. Some of them let you control the mouse, so you can simulate
drag&drop operations in your test scenarios now. Others allow for an
easier page validation. With **package-level test data** it is now
possible to manage test data items with a restricted scope. As usual for
a major release, the technology stack the XLT framework is built upon
has been updated to provide an **improved browser emulation** and
**latest WebDriver support**.

Load testing is more convenient now. With the new **load factor** you
can easily scale the load profile up or down. To speed up the download
of results, you can **limit the number of result browsers** generated
during the load test. Last but not least, the load test report has been
extended to show even more information.

As an addition to server-side performance testing, you can now also
assess the **client-side performance**. XLT uses an instrumented Firefox
browser to measure values, such as page loading and rendering times, to
help you judge whether or not the user experience is acceptable.

If you are into continuous integration, you might find our new **plug-in
for Jenkins** interesting. This plug-in makes it easy to include XLT
load tests in your Jenkins-based build and deployment processes and
provides the means to automatically evaluate the results and visualize
the trend.

The **NoCoding test suite** is a new coding-free approach to execute
basic load tests. Use **XLT Proxy Recorder** to record test scenarios on
HTTP level, which can be processed directly by the test suite.

XLT also ships with a **new demo application**, the Posters store. It is
an online shopping application that perfectly demonstrates how to use
XLT when testing complex business processes in web applications.

See below for a more detailed introduction to the most important
features and improvements. The new release contains various other
enhancements and fixes, so we strongly recommend to upgrade your XLT
installation as soon as possible.

### Script Developer

#### New Commands

Script Developer supports new commands:

-   `mouseDownAt` - simulates pressing the left mouse button on the
    specified element at the given offset coordinates
-   `mouseMove` - moves the mouse to the specified element
-   `mouseMoveAt` - moves the mouse to the given offset coordinates
    relative to the specified element
-   `mouseUpAt` - simulates releasing the left mouse button on the
    specified element at the given offset coordinates
-   `storeElementCount` - stores the number of elements matching the
    given locator to a variable (as usual, this command is accompanied
    by its `assert...`, `assertNot...`, `waitFor...`, and
    `waitForNot...` variants)

See the User Manual for more details and usage examples.

#### Package-Level Test Data

In addition to defining test data on script level and globally, you can
now also define it on package level. This way you can share test data
definitions exclusively for a subset of scripts. Simply choose “Manage
Test Data…” from a package’s context menu to define, modify, or delete
test data items that can be used by any test case defined in this
package or one of its sub-packages.

As usual, test data defined “closer” to the script will overwrite
“outer” test data, so the lookup order when searching for test data
items is as follows:

-   For test cases: (1) script → (2) script package → (2) parent
    package → … → (n-1) default package → (n) global test data
-   For modules: (1) script → (2) global test data

{{% note notitle %}}
Package-level test data is not supported for modules. To achieve the
same effect, define the test data in the context of the calling test
case instead and use module parameters to pass the values on to the
module as needed.
{{% /note %}}

#### Usability Improvements

-   In the script tree view on the left-hand side, use the new keyboard
    shortcut `Ctrl`+`A` to select all
    scripts/packages at once.
-   Existing scripts can now be duplicated easily by copy&paste.

#### Supported Firefox Versions

Script Developer has been made compatible with the latest available
Firefox version (as of July 2014), while outdated versions are not
supported any longer. Thus, Script Developer runs on Firefox 24 ESR up
to 31 now.

### Load Test Environment

#### Load Test Report

The load test report has been enhanced:

-   The *Load Profile* table now includes a footer row summarizing the
    *total* load parameters, such as the total user count or the total
    arrival rate.
-   The *Agents* table shows a footer row as well. It shows the
    *average* resource usage calculated over all agents.
-   The CPU Usage chart for an agent process contains the overall CPU
    usage now.
-   The URLs that appear when hovering over an entry in the *Requests*
    table are clickable links now.
-   In request runtime charts, the runtime values are now drawn at the
    time a request finished, not when it started. This is to be in line
    with actions and transactions.
-   For all charts, the *Time* axis now shows the time zone the report
    was created for, which is meant to help you interpret the times
    correctly.

#### Scaling Load Profiles

Quite often it is necessary to run tests not only at 100% of target
load, but also at lower levels (for dry runs or first tests) or higher
levels (for peak load tests). Since recalculating and adjusting the
respective load profiles is inconvenient and error-prone, XLT now
supports a simple load factor. When taking advantage of it, you only
need to configure the target numbers (100% of load) once and can then
easily scale the load up or down as you like:

```bash
## scale the load down to 50% for TAuthor and to 10% for all other scenarios  
com.xceptance.xlt.loadtests.TAuthor.loadFactor = 0.5  
com.xceptance.xlt.loadtests.default.loadFactor = 0.1
```

Note that the load factor is applied to the *arrival rate* load
parameter if configured. If an arrival rate is not specified, the load
factor is applied to the configured number of users instead.

#### Limiting the Number of Result Browsers

If an error occurs during a transaction in a load test, a result browser
with the last *N* pages is written to disk. If the error condition is
permanent (or present for a longer period of time), we might end up with
thousands of (rather similar) result browsers. This tremendously
increases the volume of data to be downloaded after the test, but does
not provide any new information. That’s why you can limit the number of
result browsers per type of error and agent now.

For each type of error, which is identified by its message and
stacktrace, XLT tracks the current number of stored result browsers and
stops writing down any new result browser once the configured maximum
number is reached. However, you may also configure a time period to
periodically clear the counter. Use this setting to limit the maximum
number of result browsers for a given time period instead of the whole
test runtime.

```bash
# maximum number of different error types per agent  
com.xceptance.xlt.output2disk.onError.limiter.maxDifferentErrors = 1000

# number of result browsers per agent and type of error  
com.xceptance.xlt.output2disk.onError.limiter.maxDumps = 10

# period after which the result dump counter is reset to 0  
com.xceptance.xlt.output2disk.onError.limiter.resetInterval = 1h 30m
```

#### Agent Controller

The agent controller is now fully configurable via command line
parameters. Any setting contained in
`<xlt>/config/agentcontroller.properties` can also be specified on the
agent controller’s command line using the `-Dkey=value` syntax:

```bash
> agentcontroller.sh -Dcom.xceptance.xlt.agentcontroller.port=8501
```

This also works when running the master controller with an embedded
agent controller. Simply pass the agent controller properties on to the
master controller’s command line. Note that parameters passed on at the
command line will override the respective settings in the agent
controller’s properties file.

The agent controller is meant to be run permanently on the load agent
machines. In order to run the agent controller without a terminal
session in the background, XLT ships with a respective shell script
(UNIX only) that takes the necessary actions. Simply install the
provided script `<xlt>/etc/init.d/xlt` to `/etc/init.d` on your agent
machines. You can control the XLT agent controller using the usual
commands:

```bash
> /etc/init.d/xlt start
> /etc/init.d/xlt restart  
> /etc/init.d/xlt stop
```

### Framework

#### New Script Commands and Package-Level Test Data

As mentioned above, Script Developer introduces some new commands and
the ability to define test data on package level. The XLT framework has
been extended to support these new features as well when replaying
script test cases.

#### Exclusive Access to Test Data

Sometimes test data can only be used exclusively during a load test run.
For instance, account data might not be used concurrently in case the
application is designed such that only one login per ID is allowed at
the same time. XLT now offers the utility class `ExclusiveDataProvider`
that ensures the exclusive use of test data. It splits the set of test
data into as many chunks as agents and manages the current agent’s chunk
as a pool with a take/return-like API:

```java
ExclusiveDataProvider<String> dataProvider = ExclusiveDataProvider.getInstance(“accounts.txt”);  
// acquire the data item  
String accountName = dataProvider.get();  
…  
// release the data item  
dataProvider.add(accountName);
```

Note that your test code must return the test data item to the pool once
the test case is finished. Please also make sure that enough test data
items are available in an agent’s pool. Otherwise, a test user has to
wait until an item is returned to the pool.

The `ExclusiveDataProvider` is able to manage structured data items as
well. All you need to do is providing a custom Parser object that
converts a line of text into a data object:

```java
ExclusiveDataProvider<Account> dataProvider = 
	ExclusiveDataProvider.getInstance(“accounts.txt”, new AccountParser());  
Account account = dataProvider.get();
```

#### Test Case Specific Transaction Timeout

The timeout used to abort long-running transactions has only been a
global setting so far. Now it can be configured specifically for each
test case/transaction type:

```bash
# default settings  
com.xceptance.xlt.abortLongRunningTransactions = true  
com.xceptance.xlt.maximumTransactionRunTime = 900000

# specific setting for the TAuthor transaction type  
TAuthor.com.xceptance.xlt.maximumTransactionRunTime = 20000

# specific setting for the TVisitor test case class  
com.xceptance.xlt.samples.tests.TVisitor.com.xceptance.xlt.maximumTransactionRunTime = 3500
```

### Measuring Client Performance

Evaluating the performance of a web application is not complete until
the client side has been checked as well. It is not uncommon that it
takes the browser multiple seconds to complete downloading all resources
and to finally render a page. To detect such problems early, XLT
provides a new feature to assess the page rendering performance. To this
end, XLT uses a real browser (Firefox) to run a test case and report
important performance numbers (response times, time till the
DOMContentLoaded/load event) as seen by the browser. To enable gathering
client performance data, you simply have to configure a special Firefox
web driver before executing your test cases:

```bash
# use “firefox_clientperformance” instead of “firefox”
xlt.webDriver = firefox_clientperformance
```

The measured values are made available as separate CSV files in the
results directory of your test suite. The load report generator also
recognizes these CSV files. While the request data is presented in the
*Requests* section, page loading and rendering times are shown as custom
timers.

### XLT Plug-In for Jenkins

XLT ships with a plug-in for Jenkins, a widely used continuous
integration system. Use this plug-in to run automated load tests with
XLT, either as a stand-alone build job or as part of a more complex
build and deployment process. The plug-in automatically executes the
load test and creates load test/trend reports. Furthermore, it allows
you to automatically evaluate the load test results based on criteria
you can define, so the test run will be marked as unstable if these
criteria are violated. The plug-in also pictures a trend as to how the
results of the previous runs vary over time.

The plug-in can be found at `<xlt>/tools/xlt-4.4.0.hpi`. For more
information on how to install and use the plug-in, see the [Jenkins
Plug-In Guide](../how-to/jenkins-plugin.html).

### “NoCoding” Test Suite

The “NoCoding” test suite is another approach to model test scenarios
for load testing. There is no need to program the sequence of steps.
Instead, the test scenario is defined in a CSV file as a list of URLs
that will be requested one after another. This approach addresses the
common use case of quickly replaying only a few URLs for basic load
testing without scripting. At the same time, you can leverage the
already known features of XLT, like advanced load profiles, scalability,
and powerful reporting.

The test suite is not limited to replaying the traffic as defined in the
CSV file. For example, you can choose between lightweight mode and DOM
mode. While the former is especially resource friendly, the latter
builds a DOM tree, so basic XPath validations can be used. Automatic
cookie handling is available in either case. You may also choose whether
static content embedded into a result page should be loaded
automatically. Finally, parameters from one request can be extracted
manually and inserted into the next request to make your test cases more
dynamic.

The source code used to process and interpret the CSV files is available
as part of the “NoCoding” test suite on
<a href="https://github.com/Xceptance/testsuite-nocoding" target="_blank">Github</a>, licensed
under the Apache License. Feel free to fork and modify the code to have
it meet your individual requirements.

### XLT Proxy Recorder

XLT Proxy Recorder allows you to record test scenarios on HTTP level.
Simply configure the proxy recorder as a proxy for your browser and
start using your application. The recorder will record any request made
from your browser. During recording (or afterwards) you can structure
the list of requests into groups using *action* borders.

Via a templating language (<a href="http://freemarker.org/" target="_blank">FreeMarker</a> in this
case), the list of recorded requests can be transformed into any textual
output format. For example, you could generate code for a Java test case
that executes the requests one after anfother. The proxy recorder ships
with a predefined output template to generate a CSV file that can be
directly used as input for the “NoCoding” test suite. In case the output
format does not perfectly fit your requirements, feel free to copy and
modify the template.

### Posters - The New Demo Application

The good old blog application *Pebble* has finally been replaced by a
new demo app - the *Posters* store. It simulates a shopping application
to purchase posters online. We believe that the new demo app can
demonstrate how to do functional and load testing with XLT much better
since, in your daily work, you are very likely to deal with e-commerce
applications. Once the demo application server is running, you can
access the Posters shop via <http://localhost:8080/posters>. Of course,
there is also a new demo test suite which can be found at
`<xlt>/samples/testsuite-posters`.

### Incompatible Changes

#### Java 7 Required

In February 2013, Oracle discontinued the general support of Java 6.
Starting with 4.4.0, XLT therefore requires a Java 7 runtime
environment. This will reduce the risk of security-related problems and
permits us to leverage Java 7 features.

### Third-Party Upgrades

-   HtmlUnit has been upgraded to version 2.15
-   WebDriver/Selenium has been upgraded to version 2.42.2
