---
title: 5.6.x
linkTitle: 5.6.x

weight: 77
type: docs

date: 2021-08-19

description: >
    Secret properties, transaction statistics per agent, more RAM for report generators.
---

## XLT 5.6.0

See <a href="https://github.com/Xceptance/XLT/milestone/13?closed=1" target="_blank">here</a> for the complete list of improvements and fixes.

### Test Framework

#### Secret properties (#122)

Load test projects usually require various settings in the configuration files. These settings will later be listed on the *Configuration* page of the load test report. However, sometimes the configuration includes also sensitive settings such as access credentials, passwords, or tokens. We usually don't want to expose their values in the report. 

That's why XLT now supports *secret properties*. The values of secret properties will automatically be masked with `******`, both in the load test report and also in the downloaded load test result data.

To turn a property into a secret property, prefix its name with `secret.`, such as in `secret.basicauth.password`. You can later access the value of that property in your test scenario using the simple key `basicauth.password` or the prefixed key `secret.basicauth.password`.

Alternatively, you may put a secret property into a file named `<testsuite>/config/secret.properties`. All properties in this file are secret by default, whether or not they carry the `secret.` prefix. Also use this approach if you don't want to commit secret properties to your source code repository. Simply put all your secrets into that file and ensure that this file is not committed to your repo by accident.

#### Cookie headers not recorded with Chrome (#110)

When using real browsers such as Chrome or Firefox to execute test scenarios, XLT tries to record the details of all requests made with the help of special browser extensions. This includes also the request and response headers.

However, with Chrome/Chromium not all headers were recorded. For example, `Cookie` and `Set-Cookie` headers were missing. This is fixed now.


### Load Testing

#### Transaction error statistics per agent (#119)

In case a load test produces errors, these errors might be caused by general issues that affect all XLT agents alike or by specifc issues that affect certain agents only. Reasons for agent-specific problems may be, for example, that a CDN limits traffic from certain locations or source IP addresses, defective agent machines, configuration problems, network problems, or incorrect IP whitelisting of single agent IPs.

Previously, users were not able to tell from the standard load test report whether all or only a subset of agents were affected. To help diagnosing issues, the load test report now lists some basic transaction statistics on the *Agents* report page. This includes the total number of transactions, the number of transaction errors, and the error rate, each per agent.

#### More RAM for report generators (#117)

To be able to create load test reports from huge result data sets, all report generators and the master controller have been reconfigured to now use 4 GB as the maximum heap size.


### Misc

#### Ship Jenkins plugin v2.0.0 (#112)

XLT now ships with the new, open-source version 2.0.0 of the Jenkins plugin. The new version is functionally equivalent to the previous, closed-source version 1.3.3, so there is no need to upgrade.
