---
title: XTC v100
linkTitle: XTC v100

weight: 116
type: docs

date: 2025-06-02

description: 2025-06-03

sitemap:
  changefreq: never
  priority: 0.1
---

## Load Testing

* When a load test using custom machines was aborted, the test continued to run under certain circumstances. This issue has been resolved.
* The merge rules used when creating a custom load test report can now be easily copied using the new copy-to-clipboard button in the settings dialog of that custom report. This feature is helpful when creating another custom report with similar settings.
* Currently available XLT execution environments:
    * XLT 8.x → [8.6.0]({{< relref "/xlt/release-notes/8_6_x" >}}) (deprecated, will be **retired in July, 2025**)
    * XLT 9.x → [9.0.0]({{< relref "/xlt/release-notes/9_0_x" >}}) (**[migration needed]({{< relref "/xlt/release-notes/9_0_x#test-suite-migration" >}})**)


## Monitoring

* The section that allows you to configure whether notifications are enabled for a monitoring scenario and which reply-to address should be used has been moved from the *Notifications* tab to the *Settings* tab of that scenario. Similarly, the equivalent section in the project configuration has been moved to the *Scenario Defaults* tab.
* When you create a new monitoring scenario, the scenario now initially uses the scenario defaults that the project defines. Previously, the scenario started with a combination of scenario-specific and project-default settings. 


## Platform

* Projects are typically managed by project administrators "from the inside." If no project administrator is currently available, the organization administrator can now add new users as project administrators to the project or grant the Project Admin role to existing project members. On the *Projects* screen, click the new *Add Project Admins* option in the context menu of the project. Then, enter the email addresses of the users you want to add or promote as project administrators.
