---
title: XTC v104
linkTitle: XTC v104

weight: 112
type: docs

date: 2025-09-01

description: 2025-09-02

sitemap:
  changefreq: never
  priority: 0.1
---

## Platform

### New Feature: Manage Repository and Properties at the Organization

Managing a large organization with many similar projects can be a tedious taks, especially if all the projects are configured alike. Whenever project settings require adjustments, the changes must be applied to each project manually.

To simplify this process, XTC now allows more project settings to be predefined at the organization level. Currently, this includes Git repository settings, as well as regular and secret properties. See the new *Repository* and *Properties* tabs on the *Configuration* page of an organization.

Projects may choose to either inherit these settings from the organization or to define their own. If the settings are inherited, changes made at the organization level are effective immediately for all projects using them.

Note that certain details can still be customized for a project, even if the settings are basically inherited from the organization. For the Git repository, the project can specify a custom branch, while the repository URL and authentication are inherited. For regular or secret properties, projects can always define own properties that are added on top of the inherited properties.


## Load Testing

* Load tests can now choose whether to inherit project-level properties. In either case, load tests can still add their own properties.
* The load test REST API has been extended:
    * The Git repository branch to use for a load test can now be set via the API. For more details, see the "update" variant of the [load test action endpoint](https://xtc.xceptance.com/exploreApi#post-/public/api/v2/orgs/-org-/projects/-project-/load-tests/-id-) in the API explorer.
    * The details of a load test report now contain additional URLs. One is the URL of the browseable HTML report. There are also URLs where you can download the `testreport.xml` and the `scorecard.xml` files of that report via the REST API. Use these two files as input if you plan to automatically evaluate the results of a load test. See the [load test information endpoint](https://xtc.xceptance.com/exploreApi#get-/public/api/v2/orgs/-org-/projects/-project-/load-tests/-id-) in the API explorer for more information.
    * Two corresponding API endpoints are now available for downloading the [`testreport.xml`](https://xtc.xceptance.com/exploreApi#get-/public/api/v2/orgs/-org-/projects/-project-/load-tests/-id-/reports/-report-/test-report) and the [`scorecard.xml`](https://xtc.xceptance.com/exploreApi#get-/public/api/v2/orgs/-org-/projects/-project-/load-tests/-id-/reports/-report-/scorecard) files of a load test report.
* When configuring agent machines for a load test, XTC will no longer require you to enter the number of agents per machine as 1 is the default value now. This change is intended to prevent errors, since multi-agent setups are uncommon. However, you can still enter a larger value for the agent count. In this case, XTC will remind you to review the JVM memory settings in your test suite.
* When setting the load factor in the *Load Profile* section of a load test, you can now enter a [relative load function]({{< relref "load-configuration/#relative-load-function-definition" >}}) as an alternative to static values or absolute load functions.
* The XLT 9.x execution environment is now recommended and the default for new projects. It has been updated to XLT version 9.1.1.
* Currently available XLT execution environments:
    * XLT 8.x → [8.6.0]({{< relref "/xlt/release-notes/8_6_x" >}}) (deprecated, will be **retired in September, 2025**)
    * XLT 9.x → [9.1.1]({{< relref "/xlt/release-notes/9_1_x" >}}) (**[migration needed]({{< relref "/xlt/release-notes/9_0_x#test-suite-migration" >}})**)
