---
title: XTC v107
linkTitle: XTC v107

weight: 109
type: docs

date: 2025-11-03

description: 2025-11-04

sitemap:
  changefreq: never
  priority: 0.1
---

## Load Testing

### Feature: Improved Caching of Build Artifacts

Until now, whenever a load test was started, the test suite was built from scratch. However, building the project can take a while for complex test suites.

To shorten build times, XTC has always cached the project dependencies so that subsequent builds don't have to fetch them again. Now, XTC also caches fully built projects. For new load test runs, the built project is restored from the cache, eliminating the need for the build process to run. This can drastically improve load test preparation times.

Note that this works as long as there are no changes to the Git repository. A new Git revision causes the project to be freshly built. However, this build still benefits from the dependency cache.

Also, note that both artifact caches are automatically deleted after 14 days to save storage space. If you suspect that the caches are corrupt or outdated, you can delete them manually from the *Configuration > Build > Build Artifact and Dependency Cache* tab.

### Other Noteable Changes

* Agent machines can become overloaded due to errors in the test suite configuration or incorrect machine type selection. These machines may not respond in time, or at all, for example, when downloading test result data. This can cause the load test cleanup steps to hang. Proper timeouts are now in place to quickly detect such situations.
* Minor UI improvements.
* The XLT 9.x execution environment has been updated to XLT 9.2.0.
* Currently available XLT execution environments:
    * XLT 8.x → [8.6.0]({{< relref "/xlt/release-notes/8_6_x" >}}) (deprecated, will be **retired in November, 2025**)
    * XLT 9.x → [9.2.0]({{< relref "/xlt/release-notes/9_2_x" >}}) (**[migration needed]({{< relref "/xlt/release-notes/9_0_x#test-suite-migration" >}})**)


## Monitoring

* Minor UI improvements.


## Platform

* Minor UI improvements.
