---
title: XTC v57
linkTitle: XTC v57

weight: 159
type: docs

date: 2022-10-21

description: 2022-10-25

sitemap:
  changefreq: never
  priority: 0.1
---

## Platform

* When viewing the detail pages of a project in XTC, the title of the browser window/tab now names the current org and project. This helps to locate the right window/tab in case you have multiple projects open in your browser at the same time.
* Both monitoring and load testing projects have functionality that can be configured with properties. The properties editor control now features a copy-to-clipboard button. Click this button to copy the complete properties text to the clipboard for pasting it elsewhere in XTC or outside of it. Note that copy-to-clipboard is not supported for secret properties.
* Users are notified by email when they have been invited to join an org/project or whenever their role in an org/project has changed. These notification emails now contain links to the respective org/project so users can go there directly from their email client.
* Minor UI fixes and improvements.


## Load Testing

* It is now possible to delete multiple load tests at once. From the load test table, select the load tests in question using the respective check boxes and click the new *DELETE* button at the top of the table.
* The project tile of load testing projects on your dashboard displays indicators whether the project has load tests that are currently running or are scheduled to run at a later time. However, these indicators were shown only intermittently. This is fixed now.
* It is now easier to reschedule a load test that had been scheduled before, but was unscheduled later on. XTC now suggests the last known start date/time so users do not have to enter it once again.
* Currently available XLT execution environments:
    * XLT 6.x → [6.2.4]({{< relref "/xlt/release-notes/6_2_x" >}})
