---
title: XTC v78
linkTitle: XTC v78

weight: 138
type: docs

date: 2024-02-05

description: 2024-02-06

sitemap:
  changefreq: never
  priority: 0.1
---

## Platform

* In addition to the OpenApi specification in JSON or YAML format, XTC now also presents the definition of its public APIs as a browsable documentation, the [XTC API Explorer](https://xtc.xceptance.com/exploreApi):
    * The documentation includes the help texts as well as the input and output data types for each API endpoint.
    * You can also try API calls directly from the API Explorer. For this to work, you will need to configure authorization information. Provide either a valid bearer access token OR specify client ID and secret as well as the required scopes for XTC to create a new bearer access token on your behalf using the OAuth procedure.
* The *Add API Client Credentials* dialog has been enhanced:
    * Past expiration dates can no longer be specified.
    * The list of scopes is now sorted alphabetically.
    * There are buttons to select/deselect all available scopes at once.
* There is a new API endpoint to query the projects of an organization.
    * List all the projects of an organization:<br>
      `GET /public/api/v1/orgs/<org-short-name>/projects` (requires scope `PROJECT_LIST`)
    * Return the details of a project:<br>
      `GET /public/api/v1/orgs/<org-short-name>/projects/<project-short-name>` (requires scope `PROJECT_DETAILS`)
* Regarding the exact expiration time of API credentials, we have fixed a discrepancy between the description in the UI and the server-side implementation. API credentials with an expiration date will now expire *at the end* of the specified day (UTC).


## Load Testing

* The *Recent Load Tests* table on the dashboard of a load testing project now lists all load tests as soon as they are started, not just running and completed load tests.
* The load profile configuration of a load test has been enhanced:
    * It is now possible to define the ramp-up period and the shutdown period of a load test. See the section [Load Test Phases]({{< relref "load-configuration#load-test-phases" >}}) for all the details.
    * The load profile editor accepts not only a constant numeric value for the load factor, but also a function (such as "0/0.1 15m/1.0 1h/2.5") for a load factor that varies over time. See the section [Load Factor]({{< relref "load-configuration#load-factor" >}}) for more information on load factor functions.
    * There is a graph that illustrates the effective load factor over the duration of a load test. Use this graph to verify that the ramp-up time or load factor function you have entered will produce the desired load curve.
* Due to a change in the Hetzner cloud, it was no longer possible to provision load agent machines with dedicated vCPUs in this cloud. This is now fixed.
* Fixed some usability issues when trying to bulk-delete pinned comparison reports that occurred because pinned items cannot be deleted.
* Currently available XLT execution environments:
    * XLT 7.x → [7.3.0]({{< relref "7_3_x" >}})
