---
title: XTC v84
linkTitle: XTC v84

weight: 132
type: docs

date: 2024-06-12

description: 2024-06-12

sitemap:
  changefreq: never
  priority: 0.1
---

## Platform

XTC now provides the ability to **undo the deletion of selected items**. Consider this feature as a safety net in situations where XTC users have accidentally deleted the wrong items.

Currently, the following item classes can be restored:

* Organization
* Project (both monitoring and load testing)
* Load test
* Load test result
* Load test report (both load and comparison reports)

If you delete any of these items, they are not really deleted, but hidden in the user interface. You have the option to restore such a soft-deleted item within 30 days. If you don't restore the item in time, it will be automatically and permanently deleted after that time.

When an item is restored, any child items that were deleted along with the parent item are also restored, such as load tests and their data being restored when a load test project is restored.

To restore an item, go to the screen from which you soft-deleted the item. Click the *Show Deleted Items* entry in the 3-dot table menu to list the items that can be restored. To restore a particular item, click *Undo Deletion* in the context menu of that item. To switch the view back to the live items, click *Hide Deleted Items* in the table menu.

Typically, all important data will be restored, but less important settings may be lost forever. For example:

* Load test results and reports that were publicly shared must be re-shared.

Note that soft-deleted load test results and reports occupy storage space for another 30 days.


## Load Testing

* The XLT 7.x execution environment has been retired. Please make sure that you have reconfigured the default execution environment to be XLT 8.x in the project settings.
* The XLT 8.x execution environment has been updated to run XLT 8.2.0.
* Currently available XLT execution environments:
    * XLT 8.x → [8.2.0]({{< relref "/xlt/release-notes/8_2_x" >}})


## Monitoring

We have begun reworking the UI of monitoring projects to ensure a consistent look and feel across all project types in XTC. Over the next few releases of XTC, we will provide UI updates in small increments. In this release, we start with the configuration of monitoring scenarios.

* The *Scenario Defaults* section has been moved to the *Configuration* section of the monitoring project.
* The scenarios on the *Scenarios* page are now displayed in a table.
* The various settings for a scenario are now displayed and managed on a new details page with tabs for the different configuration areas.



