---
title: XTC v91
linkTitle: XTC v91

weight: 125
type: docs

date: 2024-11-04

description: 2024-11-05

sitemap:
  changefreq: never
  priority: 0.1
---

## Monitoring

### New Feature: Pausing a Scenario

Monitoring scenarios can now be paused for a specified time. This means that the scenario is temporarily disabled, but is automatically reactivated after the configured time. Use this feature to investigate and fix scenario errors without being distracted by alerts. If you forget to reactivate the scenario, XTC will do it for you.

To pause a scenario, go to the *Scenarios* page, open the context menu for a scenario, and click *Pause*. You will be prompted to enter the date/time until which you want to pause the scenario. Alternatively, you can pause a scenario directly from the *Dashboard* page by clicking the clock icon on the scenario tile. To unpause a scenario, click *Continue* in the context menu or the *Paused* icon on the scenario tile.


### Other Changes

* The *Dashboard* page of a monitoring project has been redesigned. The chart showing failed scenario executions has been replaced with a histogram visualizing the proportions of all execution results over the last 24/48 hours.
* Minor UI improvements.


## Load Testing

* The *Share Report/Result* dialog has been improved. The date/time picker control now has "quick buttons" for commonly used custom sharing periods.
* Currently available XLT execution environments:
    * XLT 8.x → [8.4.1]({{< relref "/xlt/release-notes/8_4_x" >}})


## Platform

* The *Last Accessed Projects* section on the user dashboard now displays twelve projects instead of six.
* Whenever API credentials are created or deleted in a project or organization, corresponding audit log entries are now created in that scope. The same is true when API credentials inherited from the organization are enabled or disabled in a project.
* Minor UI improvements.

