---
title: "Load Test Settings"

weight: 150
type: docs

description: >
  Specific settings for your load test, e.g. load profile, repository, machine configuration, and more.
---

## Test Settings

The _Settings_ tab contains all settings for the test run. Some of these are mandatory, you need to set them before the test run can be started.

{{% note notitle %}}
Please note that none of the test settings can be edited after the test was started.
{{% /note %}}

{{% permission type="project" least="true" role="tester" action="edit test settings" %}}

{{% permission type="project" least="true" role="reviewer" action="view test settings" %}}


### Load Profile

Under _Load Profile_ you can override the settings in your test suite for the [test properties file to be used](../../../load-testing/manual/480-test-suite-configuration/#test-properties-file). In addition to that, you can override the settings for test duration and [load factor](../../../load-testing/manual/470-load-configuration/#load-factor). All other settings, for example, [ramp-up times](../../../load-testing/manual/470-load-configuration/#ramp-up-load-profile), are not directly configurable in the UI yet, but are still read from the properties files in your test suite.

The load profile settings are only needed if you want to override your test suite settings for some reason, e.g. quickly changing the test duration or load factor without pushing changes to the repository, or switching between your prepared test property files. If the fields are left empty, the settings in the test suite will be used.

Learn more in our _Load Testing_ section about [configuring load profiles](../../../load-testing/manual/470-load-configuration) for your test run.

### Repository

Under _Repository_ you can enter a branch of the project repository to be used for this test run. This is only necessary if you want to use another branch than the one you [configured for the project](../../060-project-configuration/#repository). If this is left empty, the project or default branch will be used.

### Machine Configuration

The most important (and mandatory) part of the test setup is the configuration of the test machines to be used. 

In _Common Machine Configuration_ you can enter a password for the communication between the master and all agent machines (a random password will be generated by default).

The machines to be used can be entered in _Google Machines_ or _Custom Machines_ (or you use a combination of both). 

If you want to use machines in the **Google Cloud**, you just enter configuration details and the selected machines will automatically be started prior to the load test and terminated afterwards by XTC. To edit the Google Cloud machine configuration, click the editing button next to the _Google Machines_ headline. There you can
* specify which _regions_ the machines should run in (you can pick several, the machines will be spread over the selected regions as evenly as possible), 
* pick an _instance template_ for your machines (currently tiny, small, medium or xlarge), depending on how much computing power you think you'll need,
* select the number of machine instances to start (_instance count_), and
* select the number of _agents per instance_.

Instead of starting and terminating Google Machines per XTC, you can also use other machines for testing. You can define these in **Custom Machines**: just enter a list of host names and the agents per instance for your machines, and make sure these are running while the test is executed. 

As **[test sizing](../../../load-testing/how-tos/test-sizing/)** is a whole topic in itself, you might want to check the CPU usage after your test and maybe adjust the number of machines for the next test run.

### Properties
In _Properties_ and _Secret Properties_ you may overwrite [properties](../../../load-testing/manual/480-test-suite-configuration/) for test execution. If nothing is set here, the properties from the project repository will be used. Properties may also be overwritten globally for all load tests of this project in the [project configuration](../120-load-project-configuration/#properties).