---
title: XTC v31
linkTitle: XTC v31

weight: 183
type: docs

date: 2021-03-16

description: >
---

## XTC v31


### Load Testing

#### Sneak Preview: Sharing Load Test Reports
It is now possible to share a load test report with people that don't have an XTC account. Effectively, you create a public link which can then be accessed by anyone whom you send the link to. The link is valid for a configurable period of time and can be prolonged or revoked at any time. To share and unshare a report, see the corresponding entries in the context menu of a load test report.

(Please note: This is a sneak preview of the feature. The format of the shared link and other details might change with the next releases of XTC.)

### Other Improvements
- When you start creating an intermediate or custom load test report, you will now get immediate feedback that report creation is in progress. For example, in the report list of a load test a placeholder entry will be visible which becomes clickable once the report is finally available.
- For convenience, some of the actions available in the context menu of a load test are now also available on the details page of that load test. This includes the *Edit*, *Start*, and *Abort* actions. See the new icons to the right of the load test name.

### Monitoring

#### Sneak Preview: Export of Scenario Execution Data
Sometimes you need to know in retrospect when the monitoring scenarios reported issues with your site in the past and what happened exactly. XTC is not able to store this information forever, but deletes it after a certain time. However, to enable you to analyze issues at a later time, XTC now automatically exports scenario execution data in condensed form as a CSV file once a month. The file contains the most important data of each scenario execution only, i.e. neither screenshots nor logs. You can download the exported files from the new *Exports* page in your monitoring project.

It is also possible to manually export scenario executions from the last 31 days, either all available executions or only those that ended with a certain result or match a certain search phrase in the chosen time range. To this end, open the History page of your monitoring project, filter the entries as needed, and click the *Export* button to download the resulting CSV file to your disk.

(Please note: This is a Sneak Preview of the feature. The format of the export file and other details might change with the next releases of XTC.)

