---
title: XTC v42
linkTitle: XTC v42

weight: 197
type: docs

date: 2021-11-23

description: >
---

## XTC v42



### Load Testing
#### Resource Usage Tracking
An organization now provides a new screen called Resource Usage which lists the total resources used (machine minutes, storage space) by month, both separate by project or accumulated across all projects in this organization.

Open this screen from the navigation menu of your organization, but note that this screen is visible to users with the role *Administrator* or *Billing Administrator* only.

#### Other Important Changes: 
- Only users with the project role Administrator or Test Manager are allowed to edit the project-wide sharing settings or to share results or reports. The UI now hides the respective buttons and menu entries for all other roles.
- The list of configured custom machines is now visible also in the read-only view.
- When aborting a load test, it is now possible to choose which load test artifacts (measurements, logs, result browsers) are to be downloaded from the agents. By deselecting unneeded artifacts, result browsers for example, the initial download may progress much faster and, consequently, storing the result and load test report to persistent storage later on may take less time as well.
- The Create Custom Report wizard no longer reacts to ENTER to submit the values or ESC to cancel. Instead, you'll need to click the respective buttons. This is to avoid submitting the wizard prematurely or cancelling it by accident.
- When creating an evaluation for a load test, you may now leave the Rating field unset.
### Monitoring
- Newly created monitoring scenarios are now disabled by default. This gives you time to finish customizing the scenario settings. Don't forget to enable the scenario when done.
- The layout of custom properties in the default or scenario-specific settings was broken and has been fixed.
### Platform
- The organization and project selectors in the page header now feature a search input field to filter the list of displayed entries by substring and ignoring case.
- When connecting your XTC account to an external account (currently Google or Microsoft), you’ll now need to confirm that you want to proceed before being redirected to the respective provider.
- The loading indicator in tables is now less CPU-consuming.

