---
title: 5.5.x
linkTitle: 5.5.x

weight: 78
type: docs

date: 2021-06-10

description: >
    Ignore IPv6 addresses received from DNS, HtmlUnit 2.50.0, minor fixes.

sitemap:
  changefreq: never
  priority: 0.1
---

## XLT 5.5.0

See [here](https://github.com/Xceptance/XLT/milestone/12?closed=1) for the complete list of improvements and fixes.

### Load Testing

#### Write total ramp-up period to the results (#105)

After downloading load test results from the agents, the Master Controller adds some informative values to the configuration files in the results folder. This includes the start time and the actual duration of the load test and now also the total ramp-up period, i.e. the total time it took all active test scenarios to finish their ramp-up.

#### NPE when listing or deleting machine instances with gce_admin (#100)

When listing or deleting machine instances, `gce_admin` might fail with a `NullPointerException`. This happened for machine instances that do not have a public IP, but a private IP only. Now the code falls back to a private IP in case no public IP is assigned to the machine.


### Test Framework

#### Discard IPv6 addresses received from DNS (#104)

When resolving a host name via DNS, XLT usually gets back one or more IPv4 addresses and maybe also IPv6 addresses. However, sometimes using IPv6 causes issues. Maybe it is not enabled on your local machine or not correctly set up. In some cloud environments, IPv6 is not available either.

In order to work around such issues, XLT may now optionally discard IPv6 addresses received from DNS and use the IPv4 addresses only. Likewise, it may come in handy to discard IPv4 addresses only, for testing purposes.

Now there are two new properties to configure the wanted behavior:

```
xlt.dns.ignoreIPv4Addresses = false
xlt.dns.ignoreIPv6Addresses = false
```

#### Update to latest HtmlUnit (#95)

HtmlUnit has been updated to the latest available version 2.50.0.

#### XLT keeps the properties files of a test suite open (#93)

Once the Master Controller had uploaded a test suite to the Agent Controllers, it was no longer possible to edit the configuration files of the test suite, for example `project.properties`, on the local machine. The editor complained that the file is in use by another process.

A similar effect could be observed on the Agent Controller machine. Once the Master controller had downloaded the results of a test run, uploading a test suite with a modified properties file failed on the Agent Controller, again with the error that the old properties file is in use by someone else on the Agent Controller machine.

This issue was caused by XLT not closing files correctly. Fixed now.

#### Result browser broken when running test cases with Java 16 (#102)

When running test cases via Maven/Surefire and Java 16, we could get exceptions similar to the following:

```
java.lang.ExceptionInInitializerError
Caused by: java.lang.reflect.InaccessibleObjectException: Unable to make field private final java.util.Comparator java.util.TreeMap.comparator accessible: module java.base does not "opens java.util" to unnamed module @4de8b406
```

```
java.lang.NoClassDefFoundError: Could not initialize class com.thoughtworks.xstream.converters.collections.TreeMapConverter
```

This happened when creating the result browser files. XLT then left a corrupt `data.js` file, which in turn broke the result browser. This issue is fixed now.
