---
title: 5.7.x
linkTitle: 5.7.x

weight: 76
type: docs

date: 2021-09-06

description: >
    Basic support for HTTP/2, download options for the master controller, new cloud data centers.

sitemap:
  changefreq: never
  priority: 0.1
---

## XLT 5.7.1

See [here](https://github.com/Xceptance/XLT/milestone/16?closed=1) for the complete list of improvements and fixes.


### Test Framework

#### Result Browser

The result browser features a tree view for JSON content. Previously, the viewer was populated only for content with exactly the type "application/json". This has been extended to include all "application/<...>+json" content types so other json-esque responses can be viewed as well.

#### OkHttp-Based Web Connection

Our alternative OkHttp-based web connection comes with some fixes. The code which decides which cookies are to be sent back to which server has been improved. Furthermore, binary request bodies are no longer sent UTF-8-encoded by mistake.

#### Other Noteworthy Changes

* Improved the performance when saving HTML pages to disk for later display in the result browser.
* Fixed an issue when parsing multi-line property definitions in test suite configuration files.


### Load Testing

* Stuck agent processes are now killed forcefully by the agent controller.
* Fixed an issue causing the master controller to get stuck during result download. 
* Fixed an error that causes load test report pages to not be rendered correctly on iOS devices.
* If additional custom input elements have been injected into load test report pages, they are no longer populated with the value of the standard filter input.



## XLT 5.7.0

See [here](https://github.com/Xceptance/XLT/milestone/15?closed=1) for the complete list of improvements and fixes.

### Test Framework

#### Support for HTTP/2

Nowadays more and more servers talk HTTP/2, however, HtmlUnit does not support HTTP/2 yet. Until proper support is available out-of-box, XLT provides an alternative web connection that uses the OkHttp HTTP client which is able to talk HTTP/2. The new web connection tries to mimic the original web connection, but the browser specifics may not be emulated as accurate. Furthermore, the ability to reconfigure the web connection according to the current web client options during the test scenario is limited only. That's why XLT still uses the standard HtmlUnit web connection by default.

If you want to try out testing with HTTP/2, you first need to enable that feature by setting the following property in the configuration of your test suite:

```
com.xceptance.xlt.http.client = okhttp3
```

By default, the client will talk HTTP/2 or HTTP/1.1, whatever the server wants. For testing purposes, you can disable HTTP/2 altogether:

```
com.xceptance.xlt.http.client.okhttp3.http2Enabled = false
```

You might want to know which protocol was eventually negotiated between the HTTP client and the server. Please consult the result browser which has been extended to display the protocol version used on the *Request Information* tab.



### Load Testing

#### Download options for the master controller in non-interactive mode

For highly-automated environments, the master controller can be used in non-interactive mode to carry out certain operations, for example to download test results. Up to now, the results were downloaded always completely. However, sometimes you might want to skip certain artifacts, to save disk space and download time. In the interactive mode, you are able to select what artifacts are to be downloaded. This is now possible in non-interactive mode as well.

The master controller provides the new command-line option `--only-download=...` with which you can specify the wanted artifacts. See below for the list of supported artifact types:

* `measurements` (all the measurements, i.e. the `timers.csv` files)
* `logs` (all log files)
* `resultbrowsers` (all existing result browser directories)

Combine these artifacts types as needed, separated by comma, for example `--only-download=measurements,logs`. Note that you have to specify at least one artifact type. If you don't want to download anything, use the already existing command-line option `-noDownload`.


#### ec2_admin and gce_admin support new cloud regions

Recently, Amazon and Google opened new data centers.

Amazon:
* Osaka, Japan (ap-northeast-3)

Google:
* Dehli, India (asia-south2)
* Melbourne, Australia (australia-southeast2)
* Toronto, Canada (northamerica-northeast2)
* Warsaw, Poland (europe-central2)

These regions are now supported in `ec2_admin` and `gce_admin`, respectively.
