---
title: 6.1.x
linkTitle: 6.1.x

weight: 74
type: docs

date: 2022-03-18

description: >
    DELETE requests with a request body.
---

## XLT 6.1.1

See [here](https://github.com/Xceptance/XLT/milestone/19?closed=1) for a complete list of all changes.

### Test Framework

#### ClassCastException in screenless mode

Your client-performance test scenarios are performed with either `XltChromeDriver` or `XltFirefoxDriver`. Typically, the driver is run in screenless mode, i.e. with a virtual display provided by Xvfb. When using this mode, a `ClassCastException` can be observed causing your test scenarios to fail immediately. This is fixed now.

#### dnsjava

The library `dnsjava` has been updated to version 3.5.0. This also fixes one of those *illegal access warnings* printed by the JVM when running test scenarios from your IDE.



## XLT 6.1.0

See [here](https://github.com/Xceptance/XLT/milestone/17?closed=1) for a complete list of all changes.

### Test Framework

#### DELETE requests with a request body

Some applications send data in the body of DELETE requests. The HTTP standard allows that and browsers support it as well. To be able to load-test such applications, XLT has been extended to allow making DELETE requests with an (optional) request body. See below for an example how to do this:

```java
// build the request
WebRequest webRequest = new WebRequest(someUrl, HttpMethod.DELETE);
webRequest.setAdditionalHeader("Content-Type", "application/json;charset=UTF-8");
webRequest.setCharset(StandardCharsets.UTF_8);
webRequest.setRequestBody(someJson);

// execute the request
WebResponse webResponse = webClient.loadWebResponse(webRequest);
```

### Load Testing

* When downloading results from an agent controller, the master controller did sometimes fail with an "Unexpected end of ZLIB input stream" error message. This happened for large result archives only. Fixed.
* For huge load test results, the report generator did print negative values for the data record counter. Fixed now.
