---
title: 6.2.x
linkTitle: 6.2.x

weight: 73
type: docs

date: 2022-04-07

description: >
    Use request method in merge rules.

sitemap:
  changefreq: never
  priority: 0.1
---

## XLT 6.2.4

See [here](https://github.com/Xceptance/XLT/milestone/24?closed=1) for a complete list of all changes.

### Test Framework

#### Result Browser

##### Remove auto-refresh tags from page snapshots

When dumping snapshots of the visited pages for later display in the result browser, any piece of the page that may alter this page (e.g. Javascript code) is removed. Auto-refresh tags, such as `<meta http-equiv="refresh" content="10; url=/">`, are now removed as well.

##### Request body not shown on the Request Information tab

For POST requests, the result browser shows the post data either as a table (in case of form data) or as a text area (in case of JSON, etc.) right on the *Request/Response Information* tab. The latter will now work again.

##### Other fixes

* Ensure the actions/requests menu to the left and the content area to the right scroll independently.
* Ensure the *View as HAR* link is shown only if there is indeed a HAR file available.


### Load Testing

#### ec2_admin: List x86_64 images only

When listing the available AMIs in `ec2_admin`, images that target an architecture other than `x86_64` (for example `arm64`) will now be filtered out.



## XLT 6.2.3

See [here](https://github.com/Xceptance/XLT/milestone/23?closed=1) for a complete list of all changes.

### General

Many 3rd-party libraries have been updated. This also fixes certain vulnerabilities that have been detected recently.


### Test Framework

#### Reduce Footprint of Result Browser

The XLT result browser lists the details of all requests made during the execution of a test scenario. The result browser itself is a small web application that uses several JS, CSS, and image resources. We made some effort to replace certain 3rd-party JS libraries and optimized the remaining resources. This way the result browser consumes significantly less space on disk and is loaded faster.

#### Guava Version Clash Fixed

XLT depends on certain 3rd-party libraries which themselves depend on different versions of guava. In Eclipse, the conflict was (wrongly) resolved to use an older version of guava, which broke Selenium-based tests because of missing methods. XLT now ensures the correct version is used.


### Load Testing

#### Support XML for Logging Framework Configuration 

The Log4j2 framework can be configured with configuration files in certain formats. When looking for such a configuration file in the test suite, an XLT agent now tries not only `config/log4j2.properties`, but also `config/log4j2.xml`. The logger configuration in the alternative format XML is sometimes easier to read and understand.

Note that if both `log4j2.properties` and `log4j2.xml` exist, both files will be loaded and their configuration merged. In order to avoid unexpected results, decide on the file format to use and delete the respective other file.



## XLT 6.2.2

See [here](https://github.com/Xceptance/XLT/milestone/22?closed=1) for a complete list of all changes.

### Test Framework

The XLT result browser lists the details of all requests made during the execution of a test scenario. The result browser itself is a small web application that uses several JS, CSS, and image files. All these resources are now minified and bundled into the `index.html` (for the result browser) and `harviewer.html` (for the optional HAR support). This way the result browser consumes less space on disk and is loaded faster.



## XLT 6.2.1

See [here](https://github.com/Xceptance/XLT/milestone/21?closed=1) for a complete list of all changes.

### Test Framework

* XLT comes with some small optimizations regarding CPU and memory usage.
* When building the class path from the test suite files uploaded to the load agents, XLT now also searches directory `build/dependency` for additional JAR files. This new directory better fits the directory structure that is typical for Gradle-based test suites.

### XLT Jenkins Plug-In

XLT now ships with the latest version 2.0.1 of the XLT Jenkins plug-in. This version fixes an [issue](https://github.com/Xceptance/XLT-jenkins-plugin/issues/4) when executing the same Jenkins project/job multiple times in parallel.



## XLT 6.2.0

See [here](https://github.com/Xceptance/XLT/milestone/20?closed=1) for a complete list of all changes.

### Test Framework

#### Incorrect response size reported in real-browser tests

Previously, our timer recorder extensions for Chrome and Firefox might report an incorrect value for the size of a response. The reason is that this value relied on the received `Content-Length` header which, however, might not be present at all. Now the extensions use the `transferSize` metric obtained from the browser and fall back to the content length only if this metric is not available.

#### UnknownHostException with dnsjava-based host name resolver

XLT may use `dnsjava` as an alternative DNS resolver. The dnsjava-based implementation queries either one of the configured name servers or the system's default name server if no specific server was configured. The latter did not work reliably on Windows so dnsjava might end up with no name server, resulting in an `UnknownHostException`. Fixed now.


### Load Testing

#### Use request method in merge rules

Especially when load-testing REST-based APIs, XLT may record requests which have the same URL, but differ in the HTTP request method only. Since the runtime behavior may be very different for each method, it is essential to evaluate these requests not as a whole, but per request method.

To this end, the request processing framework in the report generator has been extended by a new filter (type code `m`) that filters requests by HTTP method. Use this filter in request processing rules to split requests into different buckets by qualifying the request name with the respective request method.

See below for how some typical request processing rules would look like:

```
# append HTTP method to request name
com.xceptance.xlt.reportgenerator.requestMergeRules.11.newName = {n} [{m}]
com.xceptance.xlt.reportgenerator.requestMergeRules.11.stopOnMatch = false

# append HTTP method to request name for OPTIONS requests only
com.xceptance.xlt.reportgenerator.requestMergeRules.11.newName = {n} [{m}]
com.xceptance.xlt.reportgenerator.requestMergeRules.11.methodPattern = OPTIONS
com.xceptance.xlt.reportgenerator.requestMergeRules.11.stopOnMatch = false
```

To enable filtering requests by HTTP method, XLT will **always** record the request method to `timers.csv` from now on. Previously, it was recorded only if the property `com.xceptance.xlt.results.data.request.collectAdditionalRequestInfo = true` was set.

#### Run start command independently from upload command

The XLT master controller supports a command line interface to trigger the various stages of a load test (`upload`, `start`, `abort`, `download`, `report`) via scripts.

Previously, `start` did not work without `upload`, i.e. the two commands had to be combined:

```
mastercontroller.sh -c upload,start
```

However, sometimes it would be nice if we could prepare everything beforehand (uploads may take a while) and later just start the load test, for example to begin load testing exactly at a certain time:

```
mastercontroller.sh -c upload
mastercontroller.sh -c start
```

The `start` command can now be run separately in non-interactive mode. Please ensure that you have uploaded the test suite before or otherwise the load test will finish immediately.

Note that in interactive mode you still have to upload a test suite before you can start the load test.