---
title: 7.0.x
linkTitle: 7.0.x

weight: 74
type: docs

date: 2023-06-26

description: >
    Faster report generation, enhanced load test report, HtmlUnit 3

sitemap:
  changefreq: never
  priority: 0.1
---

## XLT 7.0.0

Version 7 is a major release of XLT. It comes with many new features, but also incompatible changes. Please see below for an overview of what's in the box.

Because of significant API changes in XLT 7, you will need to migrate your test suites for use with this new version. Please study the section Test Suite Migration carefully. 


### Overview

#### Report Generator

The XLT report generator has been tuned extensively with respect to CPU and memory usage. Care has been taken to not copy strings needlessly, thus avoiding a lot of object creations on the heap and hence garbage collection times. More is done in parallel now, using all available CPU cores more efficiently. As a result, report creation is often twice as fast as before. For this to become possible, the API of XLT's `Data` classes had to be reworked significantly, especially `RequestData`. See the section Test Suite Migration below.

The number of distinct URLs for a request with the same name is now estimated instead of being exact. This saves a lot of heap space during report generation, while the error is acceptable.

Load test results containing huge numbers of different events can make the report generator run out of memory. Therefore, the number of events that appear in the report is now limited by the report generator. There are sensible default limits that can also be tailored as needed.

Also note that XLT does no longer support creating reports from load test results that have been created with XLT < 4.3.0.


#### Test Reports

##### Report Base

The technical basis of the HTML reports has been updated. This does not only include an update of the third-party JavaScript libraries, but the reports also make much more use of modern CSS now and less of JavaScript. You will need a current browser to view the reports.

The charts are now stored as lossless WEBP images. Compared with PNG, the image sizes are often only a third as large. This helps to save disk space and improves the download times when viewing the report.

Last but not least, chart images are loaded lazily now, so even huge report pages with thousands of charts load faster and become interactable earlier.

##### Report Design

*XXX - Work in progress. Please come back at a later time for all the details. - XXX*

##### Additional Report Content

The load and performance test report has been extended to show additional details. 

On the *Network* page, the new section *HTTP Request Methods* provides some insight into how often each HTTP request method has been used during the test.

The new section *IP Addresses* on the same page lists the IP addresses that have been contacted during the test and how often. This data is useful if the host name of the system under test resolves to multiple IP addresses. Use this information to learn if the distribution of traffic to these multiple target addresses during the test was as expected.

The *Events* page now shows how many events of a certain type have been dropped during the creation of the report.

The *Agents* page got a new tab section with summary charts right above the agent table. Similar to transactions, actions, and requests, these charts contain the data of *all* agents. Use them to get an idea of the overall behavior of the agents.

#### Framework

HtmlUnit, a browser emulation for Java, is the heart of the XLT framework. It has been updated to the new major version 3.x. Since there are also some significant changes in the API of HtmlUnit, consult the section Test Suite Migration for guidance.

Almost all other third-party libraries have been updated as well, including Selenium. Since the new Selenium does no longer support the "legacy mode" of `FirefoxDriver`, so we had to remove that from XLT as well.

XLT provides extensions for Chrome and Firefox to record request and response details when testing with these browsers instead of HtmlUnit's browser emulation. The extension for Chrome has been updated to be compatible with Chrome Manifest v3, which will be mandatory in the near future.

#### Load Testing

An XLT load test agent searches for Java classes and JAR files at certain locations within the uploaded test suite. The agent now knows new locations, typical for Kotlin-based test suites that use Gradle as the build tool.

Timestamps recorded by XLT are either based on the local time of an agent machine or on the Master Controller's time (as a reference time for all agents alike). With XLT 7, the new default is the Master Controller's time.

XLT comes with an error limiter that can reduce the number of result browsers written to disk for errors that have already occurred during a load test. This error limiter is now active by default.

#### XLT Distribution Archive

The XLT distribution archive `xlt-7.0.0.zip` is a bit leaner now, as we don't ship the XLT JavaDocs any longer. Please visit our [Web site](https://lab.xceptance.de/releases/xlt/latest/apidoc/) for the latest version of the JavaDocs. 

#### XLT Images

Xceptance provides ready-to-use public XLT images for AWS and Docker. The images are now based on Debian 11.x ("bullseye"). They come with the latest XLT and JDK 11 and are tuned for load testing. For real-browser load tests, they also contain the latest Chromium and Firefox (ESR) browsers with matching web driver binaries, `chromedriver` and `geckodriver`.

If you are looking for XLT images for other clouds, visit XLT's sister project, [XLT Packer](https://github.com/Xceptance/XLT-Packer/). This project does not only contain scripts to install and set up the contents of an XLT image, but also provides Packer templates to actually create such images for the following clouds:

* AWS
* DigitalOcean
* Google
* Hetzner

Follow the instructions in the README to create an XLT image for one of the supported clouds yourself.


### Test Suite Migration

As outlined above, XLT 7.x comes with breaking changes. In order to migrate your test suites, you will need to perform the following steps.

#### 1. Fix Compile Errors

##### HtmlUnit 3

The name of the HtmlUnit root package has changed. Since the rest of the package structure remains as before, migration is straightforward. Simply replace `com.gargoylesoftware.htmlunit` with the new name `org.htmlunit` via a global search/replace over all your Java source files in your IDE.

There has also been a semantic change in HtmlUnit when dealing with the value of `<input>` elements. Previously, the API only had the `getValueAttribute()`/`setValueAttribute()` methods to get or set the value of an input.

HtmlUnit now clearly separates between the internal value of an input element and the `value` attribute in the HTML source code. To get/set the internal value, you would now need to call the new `getValue()`/`setValue()` methods.
To get/set the value attribute in the DOM, call `getValueAttribute()`/`setValueAttribute()`.

Typically, you will now need to call `getValue()`/`setValue()` instead of `getValueAttribute()`/`setValueAttribute()` in your code. Only if you really intend to get or change the value attribute in the DOM tree should you call the latter methods. Review your code carefully and use the correct methods.

More migration details can be found [here](https://www.htmlunit.org/migration.html). 

##### XLT Framework

*XXX - Work in progress. Please come back at a later time for all the details. - XXX*

#### 2. Review the Configuration of Your Test Suite

XLT 7 changes the default values of some test suite properties. See file `<your-test-suite>/config/default.properties`. For example, the Master Controller's time is now used by default:

```
com.xceptance.xlt.useMasterControllerTime = true
```

Furthermore, the result browser limiter is now on by default, and the respective configuration settings have got new names. See below for the default values:

```
com.xceptance.xlt.output2disk.onError.limiter.maxDifferentErrors = 500
com.xceptance.xlt.output2disk.onError.limiter.maxDumps = 10
com.xceptance.xlt.output2disk.onError.limiter.resetInterval = 60m
```

Please check if the new defaults are suitable for you and adjust the values as needed.

#### 3. Test Your Scenarios

Now it's time to check if everything still works as before. Start by running the test scenarios from your IDE. They should run and finish with the expected results. After that, perform a small load test. Check the results and verify the output in all log files.

#### 4. Review the Report Generator Configuration

As mentioned above, the XLT report generator has learned some new features. You can configure them in the file `<xlt>/config/reportgenerator.properties`. See below for the properties (and their default values) that configure the event limiter and the WEBP chart generator:

```
com.xceptance.xlt.reportgenerator.events.eventLimit = 100
com.xceptance.xlt.reportgenerator.events.messageLimit = 100

com.xceptance.xlt.reportgenerator.charts.compressionFactor = 0.0
```

Again, please check if the default values are suitable for you and adjust the settings as needed.


### AWS AMI Retirement Notice

Xceptance provides machine images for Amazon's Elastic Compute Cloud with XLT installed and configured for use as load agents. As part of our regular clean-up process, we will **retire AWS AMIs older than XLT version 6.2.x on September 1st, 2023**. If you need an older version, please build your own AMI (see [here](https://github.com/Xceptance/XLT-Packer) for more details) or copy the respective AMI to your own AMI registry in time.

As a note for the future: Xceptance will not guarantee that provided AMIs (and, in the future, images for other cloud providers) are available forever. We strongly encourage you to migrate frequently to the most recent version. If you need a particular setup maintained for a longer period of time, please talk to Xceptance and consider a support contract.

