---
title: 7.1.x
linkTitle: 7.1.x

weight: 71
type: docs

date: 2023-07-17

description: >
    Report Enhancements and Fixes

sitemap:
  changefreq: never
  priority: 0.1
---

## XLT 7.1.1

See [here](https://github.com/Xceptance/XLT/milestone/26?closed=1) for a complete list of all changes.


### Load Test Report

#### Wrong values in the request table footer

In the footer row of the request data table, the cells for the columns *Distinct*, *1/s*, and *1/h* showed implausible values. This is fixed now.


### Test Framework

#### Reverted timer recorder plugin for Chrome

In XLT 7.0.0, we have updated the timer recorder plugin for Chrome to support Chrome Manifest v3. However, there have been reports that test scenarios running the Chrome browser via `XltChromeDriver` may now show issues, which could be attributed to the new plugin. Until we understand what is going on here, we will ship the previous version of the plugin.



## XLT 7.1.0

See [here](https://github.com/Xceptance/XLT/milestone/27?closed=1) for a complete list of all changes.


### Test Reports

#### Agent CPU usage chart

The *Overview* page of a load test report now also shows the *CPU Usage* summary chart for all your agent machines. This allows you to quickly see if there were any issues that may or may not have negatively affected the load test result.

#### Don't filter out summary charts

When filtering entries in the data table on, say, the *Requests* report page, the filter is also applied to the corresponding groups of charts. Previously, this also affected the summary chart group above the table although it should not. This is fixed now. Summary charts on all report pages will always stay visible regardless of any filter used.

#### Clear button in filter input fields overlaps filter text

Fixed a visual issue in the load test report where the clear button in filter input fields overlapped the entered text.


### Load Test Environment

#### Load test failed to start

Attempts to start a load test might fail with an error like the following:

```
Agent process started but did not report any status within 5s
```

Fixed now.

#### When killing an agent, kill the whole process tree

When a user aborts a load test, XLT may need to forcefully kill an agent. In this case, XLT will now kill not only the agent process, but also the whole process tree, as the agent may have spawned child processes such as real browsers, etc.
