---
title: 8.4.x
linkTitle: 8.4.x

weight: 64
type: docs

date: 2024-08-05

description: >
    Export errors and events via OpenTelemetry

sitemap:
  changefreq: never
  priority: 0.1
---

## XLT 8.4.0

### Load Testing

#### Export Errors and Events via OpenTelemetry

XLT can now be configured to report error and event data to an external system while the load test is still running. This allows you to analyze errors and events as they occur without having to download the full result data and to create a load test report.

XLT uses [OpenTelemetry](https://opentelemetry.io/) to export this data, specifically via OpenTelemetry's *Logs* interface. As the receiving system, we recommend using an [OpenTelemetry Collector](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/collector/). Configure this collector as needed to further process and export the data to your actual analytics backend, such as Google Cloud Logs.

If you want to use this feature, see below for what you need to configure in your load test suite:

```properties
### Whether OpenTelemetry real-time reporting is enabled.
xlt.reporting.otel.enabled = true

### Log Record Exporter
otel.logs.exporter = otlp
otel.exporter.otlp.endpoint = http://localhost:4318
otel.exporter.otlp.protocol = http/protobuf
## Custom headers
otel.exporter.otlp.headers =

### Batch Log Record Processor
#otel.blrp.schedule.delay = 2000
#otel.blrp.max.queue.size = 2048
#otel.blrp.max.export.batch.size = 512

## Resource attributes
otel.resource.attributes = project=MyShop,loadTest=42
```

After enabling the feature, you need to configure how to reach your OpenTelemetry collector. You can then define custom headers, e.g. with authorization information, etc. Optionally, you can also reconfigure the OpenTelemetry batch log record processor.

Finally, define a set of custom attributes (or labels) to be attached to all sent log entries. Use these values to separate the logs of one load test from the logs of all other load tests in your analytics backend.

See the [OpenTelemetry for Java Configuration](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/languages/java/configuration/) page for all available configuration options.

{{% note notitle %}}
Please note that this feature is currently considered experimental. However, we have released it publicly to allow a wider audience to try it out and provide feedback. So if you use this feature, be prepared for possible changes.
{{% /note %}}

