---
title: 9.2.x
linkTitle: 9.2.x

weight: 59
type: docs

date: 2025-11-03

description: >
    Dynamic zoomable charts, merge rules with URL substring match, Result Browser improvements.

sitemap:
  changefreq: never
  priority: 0.1
---

## XLT 9.2.2

### Load Test Report

Another attempt to fix the loading of WEBP chart images completely.


## XLT 9.2.1

### Load Test Report

Some issues around dynamic charts have been fixed:

* The dynamic charts are now initialized only when the *Dynamic Overview* tab is opened. This improves the initial loading time of report pages.
* The regular WEBP chart images now load properly again.
* Minor other UI fixes.



## XLT 9.2.0


### Load Test Report

#### Dynamic Zoomable Charts

When analyzing a load test report, the runtime charts provide a good overview of the target system's general behavior. However, it is difficult to obtain specific details from the charts, such as the exact time and value of a spike.

To improve reporting intelligence, load test reports now contain additional interactive charts on the *Dynamic Overview* tab in the charts section. These dynamic charts display a tooltip with the data under the cursor. You can also zoom in horizontally or vertically by selecting the area of interest with the mouse. Click the *Reset Zoom* button in the top right corner to zoom out again. 

Note that the dynamic chart does not provide a higher resolution than the static image. However, being able to zoom in allows you to see details more clearly.

The data for the dynamic charts is contained in additional JSON files within the report directory. These files slightly increase the report's overall disk space usage. If you don't need the dynamic charts or want to save disk space, you can disable this feature in the `config/reportgenerator.properties` file:

```
com.xceptance.xlt.reportgenerator.dynamicCharts.enabled = false
``` 

#### Merge Rules With URL Substring Match

Because modern applications contain many URLs with variable data, the merge rule cache in the report generator often proves ineffective. To speed things up, the URL condition of a merge rule has been updated to include a "urlText" option. This option specifies the text that must be included in the request URL:

```
## All product URLs.
com.xceptance.xlt.reportgenerator.requestMergeRules.5.newName = Product
com.xceptance.xlt.reportgenerator.requestMergeRules.5.urlText = /product/
```

In contrast to the "urlPattern" variant, substring search is used instead of regular expression matching. This significantly improves performance. However, you can't capture any data besides the full URL with "{u}".

If you need to capture other data or add more complex filter conditions, you can combine "urlText" and "urlPattern". When both are specified, both must match (AND), except when the ".exclude" variant is used, in which case only one must match (OR).

If creating the report for your load tests is taking too long, check if your merge rules could benefit from the new URL substring match feature.


### Test Framework

* The *Result Browser* now shows the response body for all responses, including those that typically (but not always) have an empty response body.
* Request names in *Result Browser* now include the URL's query string in addition to the last part of the request URL's path. This change makes it easier to distinguish one request from another, especially API requests.
* After setting a custom *Authorization* header programmatically in the web client and sending the first request, XLT continued to send that header for all subsequent requests in the same session, even after the header was removed from the web client again. This issue only occurred when **OkHttp** was used as the underlying HTTP client and has now been resolved.
