---
title: XTC v101
linkTitle: XTC v101

weight: 115
type: docs

date: 2025-06-23

description: 2025-06-24

sitemap:
  changefreq: never
  priority: 0.1
---

## Load Testing

* The XTC REST API for load tests has been enhanced. You can now configure properties, secret properties, and the XLT test properties file. When setting (secret) properties, you can either append to or replace those properties already configured at the load test.  
All of this occurs via a new variant of the "utility" endpoint for load tests: `/public/api/v2/{org}/projects/{project}/load-tests/{id}`. See the [API Explorer](https://xtc.xceptance.com/exploreApi) for details.
* XTC now supports more Google data centers for load testing, especially in the US, Europe, and the Middle East.
* You can no longer unarchive an archived load test report in an inactive project. First, activate the project. Additionally, users must now have at least the *Tester* role to unarchive a report.
* Currently available XLT execution environments:
    * XLT 8.x → [8.6.0]({{< relref "/xlt/release-notes/8_6_x" >}}) (deprecated, will be **retired in September, 2025**)
    * XLT 9.x → [9.0.0]({{< relref "/xlt/release-notes/9_0_x" >}}) (**[migration needed]({{< relref "/xlt/release-notes/9_0_x#test-suite-migration" >}})**)


## Monitoring

* Newly created monitoring projects now have sensible default settings for execution and retry.
* When duplicating a quality sensor, changes to the *Failed Execution* and *Total Number of Executions* fields were not persisted. This has been fixed.
* The error handling when renaming a notification list has been improved.
* Users with only the *Tester* role are no longer able to edit notification lists.
* Not all actions with Web Vitals measurements were shown on the *Web Vitals* metrics page. This issue has been resolved.


## Platform

* Minor UI improvements.
