---
title: XTC v103
linkTitle: XTC v103

weight: 113
type: docs

date: 2025-08-11

description: 2025-08-12

sitemap:
  changefreq: never
  priority: 0.1
---

## Platform

### New Feature: User Groups

Managing a large organization with many projects and users can be challenging. This is especially difficult when all users should have access to the same projects and have the same role in each project. Whenever user assignments or roles change, the changes must be made in each project.

To simplify this process, XTC now supports the concept of user groups. A user group is a collection of organization members managed at the organization level. Similar to regular organization members, user groups can be assigned to a project with a specific role later on. All users in the group become indirect members of the project and have the same role. This intermediate layer significantly simplifies project member management.

For example, you could create user groups such as "Admins", "Test Managers", "Testers", and "Reviewers". Go to the *Members* page in your organization and switch to the new *User Groups* tab. Create these groups and assign members to them as appropriate.

Then, assign these groups to all projects. In each project, go to the *Members* page, switch to the *User Groups* tab, and add each group with the proper project role. Note that this only needs to be done once.

Now, when adding a new user to the organization, simply assign them to the appropriate user group, for example, the "Testers" group. This automatically makes them a tester in all projects with the "Testers" user group assigned. To make a user a project administrator in all projects, remove them from their current group and add them to the "Admins" group.

Note that you can mix regular project members and user groups. This allows for project setups with special needs.

#### Effective Role 

Now that users can be both direct and indirect project members, the question arises as to what their effective role will be.

* If a user is a direct member, they will get the role defined at their direct membership.
* Otherwise, the user is only an indirect member through one or more user groups, in which case the user will have the highest role of any of the user groups.

#### Known Limitations

Some features are not available to indirect project members. This includes:

* Remembering the last visited projects.
* The ability to star a project.

### Other Notable Changes

* We resolved an issue that prevented org admins from adding additional project administrators to projects.


## Monitoring

### New Feature: Activation Times for Notification Lists

Until now, monitoring alerts were sent out 24/7. While this is appropriate for functional issues, less important issues do not need to be reported around the clock. For example, performance issues could be reported only during business hours.

Now you can manage the time periods when a notification list is active. An activation time defines a recurring time window during which notifications are sent to subscribers. For instance, notifications could be sent Monday through Friday from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. You can add up to 20 different activation times per notification list. No notifications will be sent outside of these times.

Each notification list has one initial activation time that spans the entire day on any weekday. This means that, by default, the list is active around the clock.

To limit the active time, go to the notification list in question and switch to the new *Activation Times* tab. Then, create a new activation time by specifying the following:

* Name and description.
* The days the activation time window is valid.
* The start time of the window.
* The end time of the window (including additional 59 seconds, so 23:59 becomes 23:59:59).
* The time zone for the start and end times.

Don't forget to disable or delete the default activation time.

You can define multiple activation times to allow for different time periods on the same or different weekdays. Time windows may overlap. Notifications are sent as long as at least one time window is active.


## Load Testing

* Email addresses that were configured to receive notifications at the end of a load test could not be cleared. This issue has been resolved.
* Currently available XLT execution environments:
    * XLT 8.x → [8.6.0]({{< relref "/xlt/release-notes/8_6_x" >}}) (deprecated, will be **retired in September, 2025**)
    * XLT 9.x → [9.0.0]({{< relref "/xlt/release-notes/9_0_x" >}}) (**[migration needed]({{< relref "/xlt/release-notes/9_0_x#test-suite-migration" >}})**)
