---
title: XTC v105
linkTitle: XTC v105

weight: 111
type: docs

date: 2025-09-22

description: 2025-09-23

sitemap:
  changefreq: never
  priority: 0.1
---

## Platform

* The user group feature introduced in XTC 103 has been refined.
    * Whenever a user has been added to or removed from a user group, the user will now be notified via email. When a user group is deleted, all members will be notified.
    * The organization audit log will now include entries for creating or deleting user groups. It will also record when users are added to or removed from a group.
    * The project audit log now includes entries whenever a user group is added to or removed from a project. Entries are also included when the role of a user group in a project changes.
    * Starring a project now works as expected, even if the current user is indirectly associated with it through a user group. The *Last Visited Projects* section on the user's dashboard also updates correctly now.
    * Users are added to a user group by their email address. When entering an email unknown to the organization, ...
    * When entering an email address to add an org user to a user group, XTC now suggests all matching email addresses. Note that this works for the first email address only.
* Minor other UI improvements. 


## Monitoring

* When configuring the activation times of a notification list, the start/end times can now be set more easily via proper time picker controls.
* Minor other UI improvements.


## Load Testing

* If the download of results from one or more agent machine fails (typically due to network issues or an overloaded agent), the results of that load test are no longer completely lost.
XTC downloads the results from all responsive agent machines, stores the partial result set and also creates a load test report from that partial data.
To indicate that the result set is partial only, the report ...


* The load test REST API has been updated. A new endpoint has been added that allows to set the evaluation of a load test (summary, detailed evaluation, and rating). For more details, see the [load test evaluation endpoint](https://xtc.xceptance.com/exploreApi#post-/public/api/v2/orgs/-org-/projects/-project-/load-tests/-id-/evaluation) in the API explorer. 
* The XLT 9.x execution environment has been updated to XLT 9.1.2.
* Currently available XLT execution environments:
    * XLT 8.x → [8.6.0]({{< relref "/xlt/release-notes/8_6_x" >}}) (deprecated, will be **retired in September, 2025**)
    * XLT 9.x → [9.1.2]({{< relref "/xlt/release-notes/9_1_x" >}}) (**[migration needed]({{< relref "/xlt/release-notes/9_0_x#test-suite-migration" >}})**)
