---
title: XTC v111
linkTitle: XTC v111
description: 2026-02-24

weight: 105
type: docs

date: 2026-02-23

sitemap:
  changefreq: never
  priority: 0.1
---

## Load Testing

### New Feature: Code Archives (Preview)

#### Overview

As an alternative to Git-based source code repositories, load testing projects now allow you to upload source code archives. Use this feature if:

* Your Git repository is not accessible from XTC.
* You use a source code repository other than Git.

Similar to a Git repository, a code archive contains the load test suite in source form. If a load test is configured to use a code archive, the archive will serve as the source for the test suite instead of the Git repository. All other steps will remain unchanged. XTC will still be responsible for building the test suite and can utilize features such as the build and dependency caches in the process.

To use code archives, you must first upload them. Currently, this is only possible via the XTC REST API. You can upload multiple versions of the test suite and select one of them for a specific load test.

{{% note notitle %}}
Please note that the Code Archive feature is in preview and still under development. Expect minor changes to its behavior and appearance in future releases.
{{% /note %}}

#### Code Archive Prequisites

Please ensure that the code archive meets the following requirements:

* The code archive is in ZIP format.
* The code archive contains a single top-level directory.
* The top-level directory contains the *sources* of your test suite. This includes all the content necessary to successfully build the test suite. You may exclude metadata, such as Git history information.
* Same as with Git-based repositories, the test suite build must be based on either Maven or Gradle.

#### Uploading Code Archives

Uploading code archives to XTC is currently possible only via the XTC REST API. See the new [upload](https://xtc.xceptance.com/exploreApi#post-/public/api/v2/orgs/-org-/projects/-project-/code-archives) and [delete](https://xtc.xceptance.com/exploreApi#delete-/public/api/v2/orgs/-org-/projects/-project-/code-archives/-code-archive-) endpoints in the *API Explorer* for more details.

You can perform the upload manually or in automated processes. The necessary steps are the same. In the examples below we use `curl` to demonstrate what data needs to be sent in which form to the REST API.

1. In XTC, create API client credentials with at least the new `CODEARCHIVE_UPLOAD` scope in your project.

1. Create a source code archive with your test suite according to the prerequisites.

1. Obtain an API access token for your client credentials. Insert your client ID and secret.
    ```sh
    curl -k -X POST \
         -d "client_id=<client-id>" \
         -d "client_secret=<client-secret>" \
         -d "grant_type=client_credentials" \
         -d "scope=CODEARCHIVE_UPLOAD" \
         https://xtc.xceptance.com/oauth/token
    ```
    Extract the `access_token` field from the response; you will need it in the next step.

1. Now perform the upload. Insert the access token and replace `org` and `project` in the URL with the short names of your organization and project:
    ```sh
    curl -k -X POST \
         -H "Authorization: Bearer <access-token>" \
         -H "Content-Type: application/zip" \
         --data-binary "@/path/to/test-suite-archive.zip" \
         https://xtc.xceptance.com/public/api/v2/orgs/<org>/projects/<project>/code-archives
    ```
    Repeat this step with other versions of your test suite as necessary.

#### Using Code Archives 

Now that your code archives have been uploaded, you can use them in load tests. On the details page of a new load test, click the *Settings* tab. You will see a new *Code Archive* section where you can select the code archive to use for this load test. Selecting *Use Latest* instead ensures that the most recent code archive is used. Then, start the load test as usual.

When you later duplicate the load test, the code archive settings will be duplicated as well.

{{% note notitle %}}
Note that, currently, the code archive takes precedence over the repository settings if both are configured.
{{% /note %}}

### Description Formatting Retained in HTML Report

The description of a load test is copied into the HTML load test report as well. If the description contains basic formatting, such as line breaks and empty lines, this formatting is now also retained in the HTML report.

### Available XLT Execution Environments

* XLT 9.x → [9.2.2]({{< relref "/xlt/release-notes/9_2_x" >}}) (recommended)
* XLT 10.x → [10.0.0-beta-1]({{< relref "/xlt/release-notes/10_0_x" >}})


## General

### Incompatible Change When Passing API Scopes

If you use the XTC REST API, you may need to adjust your client scripts due to an incompatible change. When creating an access token, you specify the scopes for which the token is valid. Make sure the scopes are separated only by spaces; otherwise, the server will now return an error.

* Good: `scope=CODEARCHIVE_UPLOAD CODEARCHIVE_DELETE`
* Bad: `scope=CODEARCHIVE_UPLOAD, CODEARCHIVE_DELETE`
