---
title: XTC v112
linkTitle: XTC v112
description: 2026-03-24

weight: 104
type: docs

date: 2026-03-23

sitemap:
  changefreq: never
  priority: 0.1
---

## Load Testing

### Code Archives

The Code Archives feature has been refined. Previously, once a code archive was configured, it took precedence over Git repository settings. Now, you must explicitly enable the use of a code archive for your load test.

### Git Revision Recorded

When executing a load test, XTC uses the latest revision of the test suite for the specified branch. To exactly reproduce the test setup at a later time, we need to know both the branch name and commit hash. Therefore, XTC now records these values used for each load test.

To view this information, open the Edit Details dialog of the load test in question. A new read-only field displays the branch/commit information used. For example, it might show `main/7a95e2f0de20bc7b5c7db609543afeb42d6b9932`.

The revision is also available via the REST API. Refer to the [detailed load test status](https://xtc.xceptance.com/exploreApi#get-/public/api/v2/orgs/-org-/projects/-project-/load-tests/-id-/status) endpoint in the API Explorer.

To rerun a load test with the same revision used for a previous test, you will need to manually create a new branch at the commit identified by the commit hash. Name the branch appropriately and configure it in the repository settings of your new load test.

### UI Improvements

When editing a date-time value using the keyboard, such as when adjusting the start time of a custom report, the entire value was cleared. This issue has been resolved.  

### Available XLT Execution Environments

* XLT 9.x → [9.2.2]({{< relref "/xlt/release-notes/9_2_x" >}}) (recommended)
* XLT 10.x → [10.0.0-beta-1]({{< relref "/xlt/release-notes/10_0_x" >}})
