---
title: XTC v41
linkTitle: XTC v41

weight: 175
type: docs

date: 2021-11-02

description: 2021-11-02
---

## Load Testing

### Resource Usage Tracking

When performing load tests, agent machines are started on your behalf to drive the traffic against the system under test. After a load test, both the raw load test results (measurements, error information, etc.) and also the reports generated from the results are saved to a storage device. Both agent machines and storage incur costs. Beginning with this version, XTC records information about machine hours and occupied storage.

This version of XTC provides a new screen *Resource Usage*, which is available from the navigation menu of a load testing project. This screen lists the spent machine hours and occupied storage for this project for your information. Note that this screen is not visible to users with the project role *Reviewer* or *Guest*.

### Other Important Changes: 

- The editor for regular and secret load test properties has been split into two separate editors, i.e. regular and secret properties are now configured independently from each other.

## Platform

### Single Sign-On

Up to now, users have been authenticated by XTC alone. Now it is possible to let an external identity provider perform authentication on behalf of XTC. This allows users to use the same external account to log in to XTC and also other services and applications (single sign-on). With this version, XTC adds support for Google and Microsoft as external identity providers. More may follow.

In order to make use of an external identity provider, you will first need to reconfigure your XTC account to be bound to either a Google or Microsoft account. To this end, go to _My Account > Login Data > External Login Providers_ and choose your preferred service. You will be redirected to provider-specific pages. Please follow the steps as prompted. When done, you will be redirected back to XTC.

From this moment, whenever XTC needs to authenticate you, sign in by clicking the _Google_ or _Microsoft_ button instead of providing your XTC credentials. Note that once your account is bound to an external account you are no longer able to log in with your XTC credentials.

If you don't have an XTC account yet and want to sign up, you may now sign up directly with your external account. Just click _Sign Up With Google_ or _Sign Up With Microsoft_. Your XTC account will be automatically bound to your external account.

### Other Important Changes:

- Members of an organization may be assigned the new role of a _Billing Administrator_. Use this role to give members access to any billing-related administrative tasks or screens. For future use.

