---
title: XTC v44
linkTitle: XTC v44

weight: 172
type: docs

date: 2022-01-18

description: 2022-01-18

sitemap:
  changefreq: never
  priority: 0.1
    
---

## Load Testing

### XLT Load Test Reports Enriched with Data from XTC

The _Test Comment_ section of XLT load test reports is now automatically enriched with data from XTC. This includes:
- The name and the description of the load test the report was created for. Metadata such as organization and project short name, the number of the load test and the result the report is based on, and the number of the report itself.
- An additional report comment that can be entered when creating a custom report.
### Other Noteworthy Changes:

- When evaluating a load test, you don't have to specify a summary any longer. Effectively, summary, rating, and detailed evaluation are all optional as long as at least one of them is provided.
- The list of available rating values for a load test (ABCDF) has been extended by an A+ rating. Furthermore, the way ratings are displayed has been changed so that the active rating is recognizable more easily.
- Various minor improvements and fixes.a

## Platform

### Two-Factor Authentication (2FA)

It is now possible to secure your XTC account not only with a regular password, but also with a second factor. Currently, XTC supports _time-based one-time passwords_ (TOTP) as the second factor. Use apps like Twilio, Authy or Google Authenticator on your phone to generate such passwords. 2FA is optional at the moment, but we recommend that you set up 2FA for your account right now.

To enable 2FA for your XTC account, go to _My Account > Login Data_. In the new section _Two-Factor Authentication_, click the button _Enable Two-Factor Authentication_ and follow the instructions to set up your preferred TOTP app on your phone. When this is done and you want to sign in to XTC again, you will first have to enter your regular password as usual, but afterwards you will now be prompted to enter the second factor, a one-time password. Use your TOTP app to generate that one for you.

If you later need to disable 2FA, simply click the button _Disable Two-Factor Authentication_ and confirm.

{{% note notitle %}}
Note that if you have bound your account to an external login provider (currently Google or Microsoft), the section _Two-Factor Authentication_ is not available as in this case 2FA is managed in the settings of your external account.
{{% /note %}}

### Other Noteworthy Changes:

- The Members page of an organization now shows whether or not a member has 2FA enabled. This way, organization admins can check if certain security requirements imposed by the organization are met.
- New passwords must be more complex now:
    * The minimum length is still 8 characters.
    * The password must not start or end with whitespace characters.
    * The password must not contain non-printable characters.
    * If the password length is less than 15, the password must use mixed-case characters along with at least one digit and one special character.
    * Minor UI improvements and fixes.
