---
title: XTC v46
linkTitle: XTC v46

weight: 170
type: docs

date: 2022-03-01

description: 2022-03-01

sitemap:
  changefreq: never
  priority: 0.1
---

## Platform

### Org May Impose Additional Security Restrictions

Even if users are already members of an organization, their access to that organization may be restricted based on whether they fulfill certain security requirements. At the moment, this includes:

* Whether they use 2FA for their XTC account.
* Whether they use an external SSO account.

Org admins can require members to use SSO or 2FA in the settings of the organization. Go to _Settings > Security > Access_ and choose the wanted security level. For SSO, issuer URLs can be configured.

If an organization demands SSO (or 2FA), members without SSO (or 2FA) are basically locked out. They remain members of the organization, but cannot see or do anything in the organization until they modify their account settings as required.

### Invite Users to Join XTC

Org or project admins may now invite users, which do not have an XTC account yet, to join an org or project in XTC. Simply add these users to your organization or project as usual, but make sure you activate the _Invite Users_ toggle.

Users invited this way will receive an email with a link to complete their registration (provide name, password, etc.). Once this is done, these users are all set and ready to participate in an org or project.

### Inform Users on Membership Changes

XTC users will get notified by email whenever their membership in a project or organization has changed:

* When they have been added to or removed from an org or project.
* When their org/project role has been changed.
* When they have actively been locked or unlocked by an org admin.

### Unbind from an SSO Account

Users can now unbind their XTC account from a previously bound external SSO account and use only their XTC credentials to sign in.

Please note that users that signed up with an SSO account typically don’t have an XTC password yet and therefore need to set up one first before they can unbind their account. Use the _Forgot Your Password?_ mechanism for that.

## Load Testing

### Choose XLT Execution Environment

Load tests are executed with XLT, Xceptance’s tool to drive load and performance tests. XLT is developed independently from XTC. New releases may come with improvements and also new features. New features may introduce incompatible changes so from time to time we will need to release a new major version of XLT. With XLT 6.x, this has happened recently.

Incompatible changes in XLT may break your existing load test suites so XTC lets you choose between the previous and the new XLT execution environment. However, this choice is available for a limited time only.

The XLT support and deprecation policy is as follows. Whenever a new major version of XLT is available, **the previous major version** is marked as deprecated, but **remains available for another 8 weeks**. This means while you can continue your current load testing activities uninterrupted, you should also plan and perform the migration of your test suite to the new XLT version in time. **After the migration period of 8 weeks, the previous XLT version will be removed** and the new version will be the only one available.

XTC helps to manage that transition. Project admins can define in the project settings which version of XLT should be the default one. Go to _Project > Settings > Execution > Execution Environment_ and choose an XLT version. You will want to adjust this setting when you start a new project or when you are done migrating your test suite. The default version will be effective when creating a new load test, but not when duplicating an existing one.

Testers may override this default for a particular load test in the settings of that load test. Open _Load Test > Settings > Common Machine Configuration_ and choose the wanted version of the execution environment. Use this to test your migrated code (probably on another Git repository branch) with the new version, before switching to this version in general.

{{% note notitle %}}
Please note: So far we have been talking about major XLT versions only. But what about minor version changes? Minor changes, such as 6.0.1 or 6.1.0, are backward-compatible. This means two things. First, there is nothing for you to do. Second, XTC may be updated with a new minor XLT version without prior notice. However, we will list the current version in our release notes.{{% /note %}}

#### Currently Available XLT Versions
* XLT 5.7.1 (deprecated, will be removed on **May 3, 2022**)
* XLT 6.0.0 (recommended)
