---
title: XTC v47
linkTitle: XTC v47

weight: 169
type: docs

date: 2022-03-22

description: 2022-03-22
---

## Platform

### Favorite Projects and Organizations

The *User Dashboard* is the entry page of XTC. It shows the organizations and projects you are a member of. If you have too many projects and organizations, navigating between them may get tedious. XTC helps you now to focus on your current "working set" of orgs and projects. Simply **star an org or project** using the star icon to mark it as favorite. You can toggle between your favorite orgs/projects and the full list if needed.

### Security

Now you can **create new 2FA recovery codes** at any time. Use this feature if you lost your recovery codes or used them all up. To create new codes, go to *My Account > Security > Two-Factor Authentication*, click the button *Reset Recovery Codes* and follow the instructions. The 2FA setup on your authentication device will not be affected.

Furthermore, the password reset flow has been streamlined and adjusted to industry best practices.

### Other Changes

* Various minor UI improvements and fixes


## Load Testing

* Currently available XLT execution environments
    * XLT 5.x → [5.7.1]({{< relref "/xlt/release-notes/5_7_x/" >}}) (deprecated, will be **removed on May 3, 2022**)
    * XLT 6.x → [6.1.0]({{< relref "/xlt/release-notes/6_1_x/" >}}) (recommended)
* Sorting load tests by *Start Date* or *Execution State* was broken and now works as expected again
* Various minor UI improvements and fixes


## Documentation

The online documentation has moved to the new documentation portal [docs.xceptance.com](https://docs.xceptance.com). In addition, the documentation of XLT and XTC has been split. The navigation is now more convenient.

A [new section]({{< relref "/xtc/basics/045-organizations/#mandatory-login-requirements" >}}) in the XTC documentation describes **how to configure optional access requirements**, such as using 2FA or an external SSO account, for your organization.
