---
title: XTC v49
linkTitle: XTC v49

weight: 167
type: docs

date: 2022-05-10

description: 2022-05-10

sitemap:
  changefreq: never
  priority: 0.1
---

## Platform

* Experimental: XTC may now send notifications to one or more Slack channels. In order to use this feature, you'll need to configure a Slack Bot token and the target channels. If you do that in your organization, all projects will automatically inherit these settings. If needed, you can also override tokens and channels on a per-project basis.
* The org and project tiles on the various dashboards have been redesigned.
    * The tiles may now have a custom-colored header bar to easier recognize/distinguish them. Choose the desired color in the *General Settings* of the org/project.
    * Project tiles don't support a logo any longer. Use a custom header color instead.
    * Org logos are still supported. They are rendered with the custom color as the background color.
    * The *Organizations* dashboard now features a search filter.
* For date/time input fields, values can now be entered directly via the keyboard. The input via the mouse is still possible. Click the button to the right to open the picker dialog. Furthermore, you may now specify the values with seconds precision.
* When a user has been added to an organization or project, XTC does no longer star that org or project for that user automatically. This is left to the user to decide.
* Other UI improvements and fixes.


## Load Testing

* Load testing projects are the first to use the new Slack feature. If Slack is set up properly in the org/project, XTC sends status updates in these situations:
    * Whenever a load test was created.
    * Whenever a load test was started, is running, was aborted or is finished.
    * Whenever a load test report is available.
* The XLT 5.x execution environment was removed. Please migrate your load testing projects to XLT 6.x.
* Currently available XLT execution environments:
    * XLT 6.x → [6.2.0]({{< relref "/xlt/release-notes/6_2_x" >}})
