---
title: XTC v50
linkTitle: XTC v50

weight: 166
type: docs

date: 2022-05-31

description: 2022-05-31

sitemap:
  changefreq: never
  priority: 0.1
---

## Platform

* The way the Slack integration is configured has changed a little. XTC now uses the recommended OAUth flow to create Slack API tokens on your behalf. For more information on the Slack integration setup, see the [respective chapter]({{< relref "/xtc/integrations/510-slack" >}}) in the XTC documentation.
* Various fixes and improvements.


## Load Testing

### Hetzner Cloud

XTC now supports **Hetzner Cloud as an alternative cloud provider** for load test agent machines. Note that Hetzner machines are significantly less expensive, but there are only a few data centers yet (Germany, US, Finland).

Hetzner machines are configured very similar to Google agent machines. However, there are two peculiarities:

* You can choose between *dedicated* and *shared* machines. Shared machines provide an even better value for the money, but the computing power available to you may vary over time. Use shared machines for script verification runs or similar. For actual load test runs, it is strongly recommended to use dedicated machines in order to get consistent results.
* Hetzner machines are billed by the hour. This means that the runtime of a machine instance is rounded up to the next full hour. So Hetzner machines are especially beneficial for longer load tests.

### Gradle

Before a load test can be started, XTC needs to compile your load test suite. Previously this could be done with Maven only, but now XTC supports **Gradle as an alternative build tool**. To configure your preferred build tool, open your load testing project and go to *Project Configuration > Repository > Build Tool*. If you don’t configure a build tool, Maven will be used by default.

In any case, make sure that your load test project contains the respective build files and verify locally that the build produces the expected results.

### Other Changes

* XTC doesn’t send a Slack notification any longer when creating a load test.
* The back-links to XTC in Slack notifications are correct now.
* Downloading load test result and report archives from the context menu is now working again.
* Load testing projects can no longer be deleted while a load test is running or a load test report is being created.
* Currently available XLT execution environments:
    * XLT 6.x → [6.2.1]({{< relref "/xlt/release-notes/6_2_x" >}})
