---
title: XTC v51
linkTitle: XTC v51

weight: 165
type: docs

date: 2022-06-21

description: 2022-06-21

sitemap:
  changefreq: never
  priority: 0.1
---

## Platform

* When duplicating a project in your organization, the Slack integration settings are now copied to the new project as well.
* Various minor fixes and improvements.


## Load Testing

* There is now more you can do right from the detail screen of a load test:
    * A load test can be duplicated and deleted here as well.
    * You can navigate to the next/previous load test.
* The *Slack* configuration section has got two new options to influence the way Slack messages are displayed:
    * It is now possible to group load test update messages into a separate Slack thread. This helps keep related messages together.
    * You may choose between the regular message format and a more compact one with less information.
* A load test can now be scheduled to run automatically at a certain time. See the new *Schedule* section on the *Settings* tab to configure the start time. When using this feature, make sure the configuration of the load test is complete and correct.
* The *Repository* section on the *Settings* tab of a load test has been moved to the end as it is less frequently used.
* When inviting a list of users to take part in an org or project, XTC will no longer complain if a user is already a member of that org or project as long as the new role matches the current role.
* Currently available XLT execution environments:
    * XLT 6.x → [6.2.1]({{< relref "/xlt/release-notes/6_2_x" >}})
