---
title: XTC v59
linkTitle: XTC v59

weight: 157
type: docs

date: 2022-12-05

description: 2022-12-06

sitemap:
  changefreq: never
  priority: 0.1
---

## Platform

* If you change the page size of a table, the new page size will now apply to all other tables in XTC as well.
* The highlighting of the table row under the mouse pointer now takes a custom background color into consideration.
* Other minor fixes and improvements.


## Load Testing

* The provisioning process for agent machines has been improved. In case an agent machine could not be started successfully within a certain period of time, XTC tries to provision a replacement machine instead of aborting the load test.
* The error messages shown on the *Status* tab of a load test have been improved to give more insights about what exactly went wrong.
* Creating load test reports is faster now. The underlying machines have been replaced with more powerful ones.
* When downloading a load test report or result archive, browsers now show the total download size and also a progress.
* The rating value in the load test table is now displayed colorized so the different ratings are easier to spot.
* Bulk delete of load tests is now available also if only one load test is selected.
* Similar to load tests, you may now bulk-delete load test results or reports.
* Sometimes the *Scenario Status* tab of a load test did not start auto-updating once the load test became running. Fixed.
* The *Build Tool* and *Build Dependency Cache* sections on the *Repository* tab of a load testing project have been moved to the new tab *Build*.
* Currently available XLT execution environments:
    * XLT 6.x → [6.2.4]({{< relref "/xlt/release-notes/6_2_x" >}})
