---
title: XTC v71
linkTitle: XTC v71

weight: 145
type: docs

date: 2023-08-28

description: 2023-08-29

sitemap:
  changefreq: never
  priority: 0.1
---

## Load Testing

### New Feature: Comparison Reports

Improving the performance of a Web application is an iterative process. Typically, changes to the application will be followed by load tests to prove the changes had the desired effect. However, manually comparing the reports of two load test runs to spot the differences can be a tedious task. To this end, XLT provides [Comparison Reports]({{< relref "/xlt/load-testing/manual/530-reports#comparison-report" >}}), which use color-coding to highlight the differences. Such comparison reports can now be created right from XTC.

Since comparison reports are the result of comparing two independent load test runs, such reports don't belong to a certain load test, but live in a separate space in your load testing project. See the new *Comparison* menu item in the navigation to the left.

This new page shows two tabs: *Reports* and *Comparison Reports*. On the *Reports* tab, all valid reports of all load test runs executed so far are listed. To create a comparison report, select the two source reports and click the button *Compare* above the table. Name the report, provide a description as needed, and submit the dialog. After a short while, the new comparison report will be available on the *Comparison Reports* tab. Click the link to view the report.

Comparison reports are in no way different from regular load test reports. So they can be renamed, deleted, downloaded as an archive, and also shared publicly.


### Other Changes

* When archiving a project, all report and result shares are removed now, not just the active ones.
* Inactive load testing projects are effectively read-only, but result and report shares could still be edited. Fixed now.
* Fixed an issue where custom shares that had expired could not be reset to the global sharing settings of the project.
* When viewing the Status tab of a load test as a reviewer, an error message was shown. Fixed.
* The XLT 7.x execution environment is now the default execution environment for new load testing projects.
* Currently available XLT execution environments:
    * XLT 6.x → [6.2.4]({{< relref "/xlt/release-notes/6_2_x" >}}) (deprecated, will be **retired in October, 2023**)
    * XLT 7.x → [7.2.0]({{< relref "/xlt/release-notes/7_2_x" >}}) (recommended, but **[migration needed]({{< relref "/xlt/release-notes/7_0_x#test-suite-migration" >}})**)

