---
title: XTC v72
linkTitle: XTC v72

weight: 144
type: docs

date: 2023-09-18

description: 2023-09-19

sitemap:
  changefreq: never
  priority: 0.1
---

## Platform

### New Feature: Project Documentation

Projects now provide a documentation page. See the new entry *Documentation* in the navigation bar. Use this page to share general information about the project with other project members, for example, testing goals and success criteria, test windows, contact information, news, etc. The content of the page can be formatted nicely using Markdown.

Members with the role of *Reviewer* (and higher) can view the documentation page. In order to edit the page, you need to be *Test Manager* or *Project Administrator*.

{{% note notitle %}}
As almost all members of your project are able to view the documentation page, don't share sensitive information such as credentials.
{{% /note %}}

### Other Changes

* When (un)starring an inactive project on your dashboard, the server responded with an "Access Denied" error. Fixed now.


## Load Testing

### New Feature: Pinning of Artifacts

Load tests, load test results, and load test reports that are of special interest and worth keeping can be pinned now.

* Pinning an artifact marks it as important. Because of the pin icon, the artifact stands out and is therefore easily recognizable.
* Pinned artifacts cannot be deleted. Note that an unpinned load test with pinned results or reports cannot be deleted as well.
* Pinned artifacts may later be presented on the project dashboard.

In order to pin an artifact, browse to the table that contains the artifact and choose *Pin* from the context menu. Pinned artifacts can be unpinned again from the same context menu. Note that you need to have the project role *Tester* (or higher) to pin/unpin an artifact.

### Other Changes

* The comparison report feature has been refined in details:
    * The columns of the source and comparison report tables have been rearranged for more clarity.
    * The source report table is now sorted by start time by default.
    * The links to the source reports are functional now, and links to their load tests have been added for quick navigation.
* In case the load-testing backend had issues to download/upload dependencies from/to the dependency cache, but the load test could otherwise be run successfully, the load test will no longer be marked with an error state.
* Currently available XLT execution environments:
    * XLT 6.x → [6.2.4]({{< relref "/xlt/release-notes/6_2_x" >}}) (deprecated, will be **retired in December, 2023**)
    * XLT 7.x → [7.2.0]({{< relref "/xlt/release-notes/7_2_x" >}}) (recommended, but **[migration needed]({{< relref "/xlt/release-notes/7_0_x#test-suite-migration" >}})**)

