---
title: XTC v79
linkTitle: XTC v79

weight: 137
type: docs

date: 2024-02-27

description: 2024-02-28

sitemap:
  changefreq: never
  priority: 0.1
---

## Platform

### XTC API

* An API version can now be marked as *Preview* to indicate that the version is not yet stable. This means that endpoints may be added or deleted, and the format of URLs, as well as the amount and type of incoming and outgoing data, may change without notice. However, you are encouraged to migrate your client code for testing purposes. This is your chance to provide us with early feedback so that things can be improved quickly.
* In addition to the v1 API, there is now a new v2 API (still in preview). The v2 API endpoints aim to follow REST API best practices more closely. Some URLs have been changed and some input and output data elements have been renamed for clarity. Some endpoints return more data than before. Documentation has also been improved.
* It is now possible to switch between API versions in the [API Explorer](https://xtc.xceptance.com/exploreApi). Select the desired version from the drop-down list in the upper right corner.
* There are new API endpoints for querying resource usage data for an organization or project (available in both v1 and v2 API versions).
    * List the aggregated machine and storage usage for each load testing project in an organization:<br>
      `GET /public/api/v1/orgs/<org-short-name>/resource-usage` (requires scope `ORGANIZATION_RESOURCE_USAGE`)
    * List the detailed machine and storage usage records of a project in a given organization:<br>
      `GET /public/api/v1/orgs/<org-short-name>/projects/<project-short-name>/resource-usage` (requires scope `PROJECT_RESOURCE_USAGE`)
* Fixed a problem with creating API access tokens that occurred when creating tokens in parallel.

### Other Changes

* The email sent to all project members when a project is archived now includes the organization name and project description.


## Load Testing

### New Execution Environment XLT 8.x

Load testing in XTC is performed using XLT, our load and performance testing tool. Recently, Xceptance released a new major version 8 of XLT. This version brings new features, but also incompatible changes, so you may need to migrate your existing load test suites to XLT 8. Please refer to the [XLT 8 Release Notes]({{< relref "/xlt/release-notes/8_0_x" >}}) to learn what is new and what migration steps are required.

Because migrating your load test suites to XLT 8 may take some time, XTC gives you a limited time to choose between the previous XLT 7.x execution environment and the new XLT 8.x execution environment. This means that while you can continue your current load testing activities uninterrupted, you should also plan and execute the migration of your test suites in a timely manner. Note that **in May 2024, the previous XLT 7.x execution environment will be retired** and the new 8.x execution environment will be the only one available.

XTC helps manage this transition. Project administrators can specify which version of XLT should be the default in the project settings. Go to *Project > Configuration > Environment > Default Execution Environment* and select an XLT version. You will want to adjust this setting when you start a new project or when you finish migrating your test suite. Note that the default version is effective when creating a new load test, but not when duplicating an existing one.

Testers can override this default for a particular load test in the settings of that load test. Open *Load Test > Settings > Common Machine Configuration* and select the desired version of the execution environment. Use this to test your migrated code (probably on a different Git repository branch) with the new version before switching to that version in general.

### Other Changes

* When creating a comparison report, the *Create Comparison Report* dialog now lists the corresponding load test for each of the two input reports. This should give you more context if the input reports have similar names.
* Fixed an issue when aggregating machine usage data for a given month. Previously, load tests that crossed a month boundary were not included in either the previous or the following month. Now they are included in the previous month.
* Due to a bug in XTC 78, load profile options that were overwritten by the user would not be listed in the *Load Profile* section of older load tests. This is now fixed.
* Currently available XLT execution environments:
    * XLT 7.x → [7.3.0]({{< relref "/xlt/release-notes/7_3_x" >}}) (deprecated, will be **retired in May, 2024**)
    * XLT 8.x → [8.0.0]({{< relref "/xlt/release-notes/8_0_x" >}}) (recommended, but **[migration needed]({{< relref "/xlt/release-notes/8_0_x#test-suite-migration" >}})**)

