---
title: XTC v89
linkTitle: XTC v89

weight: 127
type: docs

date: 2024-09-23

description: 2024-09-24

sitemap:
  changefreq: never
  priority: 0.1
---

## Load Testing

* The *Reports* and *Results* tabs on the details page of a load test have been merged into a single *Results* tab. This way, all the result artifacts of a load test can be found in one place.
* Currently available XLT execution environments:
    * XLT 8.x → [8.4.0]({{< relref "/xlt/release-notes/8_4_x" >}})


## Monitoring

* The scenario tiles on the *Dashboard* page of a monitoring project have been redesigned to show more details. In addition, if you have at least the test manager role in a project, you can click the bell icon on a scenario tile to quickly enable or disable notifications for that scenario.
* The *Execution* configuration section on the *Scenario Defaults* tab of a monitoring project has been split into three separate sections: *Execution*, *Retry Configuration*, and *Locations*. These new sections are smaller and therefore easier to use.
* The *Execution* section for a specific monitoring scenario has been redesigned accordingly. In addition, the new sections now include a *Use Defaults* checkbox, which you must clear if you wish to override the settings defined in the scenario defaults. Checking the box again discards the scenario-specific settings and reverts to the default settings.


## Platform

* Version v2 of the XTC REST API is now considered stable and has become the latest API version. Version v1 is now deprecated. It will be retired in December 2024. If you are still using this version, please migrate your clients to v2 as soon as possible.
* The XTC API has been extended to list and download [scenario execution export archives](< relref "/xtc/monitoring/480-exports" >) for your monitoring projects. See the [List Export Archives](https://xtc.xceptance.com/exploreApi#get-/public/api/v2/orgs/-org-/projects/-project-/exports) and [Download Export Archive](https://xtc.xceptance.com/exploreApi#get-/public/api/v2/orgs/-org-/projects/-project-/exports/-year-month-/archive) endpoints in the XTC API Explorer for more details.

