---
title: XTC v90
linkTitle: XTC v90

weight: 126
type: docs

date: 2024-10-11

description: 2024-10-15

sitemap:
  changefreq: never
  priority: 0.1
---

## Load Testing

* Hetzner Cloud
    * The new data center in Hillsboro, Oregon, USA is now supported.
    * The *tiny (shared)* instance type can now be used in all supported data centers, not just the European ones.
* Creating a custom report can fail for various reasons. The error log, which helps to identify the problem, is now displayed correctly.
* Updated XLT to version 8.4.1, which fixes an issue that caused the load test report generator to hang if the request processing rules in the load test configuration were invalid.
* Currently available XLT execution environments:
    * XLT 8.x → [8.4.1]({{< relref "/xlt/release-notes/8_4_x" >}})


## Monitoring

* Project Dashboard
    * Clicking the bell icon on a scenario tile to enable or disable notifications for that scenario now requires you to confirm the action.
    * The information displayed on a scenario tile is now available to users with the *Guest* and *Reviewer* roles.
* The *Audit Log* page of a monitoring project now has a separate tab for API audit log entries.
* Minor UI improvements for some of the monitoring scenario configuration sections.


## Platform

* The XTC UI now loads quickly, even if you are a member of many projects and organizations.
* Some XTC API endpoints return a URL as part of their response. The host and port in these URLs have been fixed to correctly point to [xtc.xceptance.com](https://xtc.xceptance.com).
* When downloading load test result/report archives directly from the API Explorer, the user interface could become unresponsive depending on the size of the archive file. This is now fixed.

