---
title: XTC v92
linkTitle: XTC v92

weight: 124
type: docs

date: 2024-11-25

description: 2024-11-26

sitemap:
  changefreq: never
  priority: 0.1
---

## Platform

### New Feature: Pause Notifications to You

XTC notifies users via email, SMS, or Slack in a variety of situations. These include changes to their account (such as confirmation of a password reset), changes to their org/project membership (such as after being added to a project), monitoring alerts, etc. If you want to take a break from work, you can now pause certain notifications sent to you for a specified amount of time. Currently this includes:

* Emails about changes in project membership.
* Emails and text messages about monitoring alerts.

This list may be expanded in the future, but notifications related to your account will never be muted.

To pause notifications, browse to your account settings (click on your avatar and select *My Account* from the menu), click the pencil button to edit your notification settings and select the period of time you want notifications to be muted for and confirm. Typically, you will do this for a period of time in the future. To delete the pause, simply click the *Delete* button next to the *Edit* button.

When the pause starts, XTC will stop sending you notifications. When the pause ends, XTC will automatically resume sending notifications, but note that muted notifications will not be resent. There is no need to delete a pause once it has expired.

Note that you may still receive monitoring alerts in these situations:

* If alerts are sent via Slack. You will need to mute the appropriate channel in Slack.
* If you are on a mailing list. Either temporarily unsubscribe from the mailing list or configure email processing rules with your email provider to mute alert emails.
* If your email address has been added as a custom subscriber. Change it to an XTC user subscriber.


## Monitoring

### Improved Feature: Scenario Execution History

The *History* page of a monitoring project has been extensively redesigned. Next to the scenario execution table, there is now a histogram visualizing the number and distribution of all scenario execution results in the selected time range.

The filtering of scenario executions has also been improved. Executions can now be filtered not only by time, search text, and result, but also by scenario and location. When analyzing anomalous executions, these new filters help to quickly narrow down the executions of interest. Note that all filters apply equally to both the histogram and the table.

### Other Changes

* Monitoring alerts sent via email or SMS now include the organization name in addition to the project name. This is to provide more contextual information to users who are members of multiple organizations.
* Various minor UI improvements.


## Load Testing

* Minor UI improvements.
* Currently available XLT execution environments:
    * XLT 8.x → [8.5.0]({{< relref "/xlt/release-notes/8_5_x" >}})

