---
title: XTC v93
linkTitle: XTC v93

weight: 123
type: docs

date: 2024-12-13

description: 2024-12-17

sitemap:
  changefreq: never
  priority: 0.1
---

## Load Testing

### New Feature: Retire Reports After 180 Days

XTC generates a default load test report as the result of a load test run. You can create additional load test reports, such as interim reports while the load test is still running, or custom reports. You can also generate performance comparison reports.

XTC stores all these reports in two forms:

1. As a folder containing HTML pages, chart images, and supporting files. In this unpacked form, the report is ready for you to browse.
1. As a single archive file containing all of the above files. This form is used when you download the report to your local hard drive.

Once you have finished analyzing a load test run, you rarely look at the associated reports again. That's why XTC now automatically retires reports 180 days after creation to save storage space. This means that the report is marked as retired and all *unpacked* report files are deleted. Consequently, the report can no longer be viewed.

If you need to view a retired report again, you must first restore the unpacked report files from the report archive. To do this, open the context menu of the report and click *Extract Archived Report*. After a few minutes, the unpacked report is available and can be viewed for another 180 days.


## Monitoring

* Notifications for a monitoring scenario can now be enabled/disabled directly from the scenario table. Click *Enable Notifications* or *Disable Notifications* in the context menu of the respective scenario.
* The maximum execution interval for a scenario is now a full 24 hours (previously it was only 23:59:59). This makes it easier to configure the interval for scenarios that should run daily.


## Platform

* API audit log entries are now deleted after 180 days, just like regular audit log entries.
