---
title: XTC v96
linkTitle: XTC v96

weight: 120
type: docs

date: 2025-03-03

description: 2025-03-04

sitemap:
  changefreq: never
  priority: 0.1
---

## Monitoring

### Refinement of Scenario Execution States

The execution of a monitoring scenario can be unsuccessful for a number of different reasons. To better express this, XTC 96 now provides an additional state FATAL. With this change, the rules for when to assign which state to a scenario execution have been redefined. They are now as follows:

* FATAL - The monitoring scenario could not be executed at all (e.g. due to compilation errors in the test suite).
* ERROR - The scenario was executed but terminated prematurely with an error (for example, an assertion error).
* FAILURE - The scenario ran to completion, but additional quality criteria were not met (e.g. Web vital thresholds were exceeded).

The state colors have also been adjusted and are now red, orange, and yellow.

Note that the state of all existing scenario executions in the database has been migrated to follow the new rules.
 
### Other Changes

* If a scenario execution was not successful, the corresponding entry in the history table now also shows which quality sensor(s) failed.
* Quiet periods are now assigned a sequential number to better identify them in audit log entries.
* Audit log entries are now created 
    * when changing a scenario's notification settings, and
    * when editing scenario defaults.
* The default retention period for monitoring metrics is now 90 days.


## Load Testing

* There are new entries in the audit log when a report is automatically archived after 180 days and when a report is unarchived by a user.
* Currently available XLT execution environments:
    * XLT 8.x → [8.6.0]({{< relref "/xlt/release-notes/8_6_x" >}})


## Platform

* Minor UI improvements.
