---
title: XTC v97
linkTitle: XTC v97

weight: 118
type: docs

date: 2025-04-14

description: 2025-04-15

sitemap:
  changefreq: never
  priority: 0.1
---

## Load Testing

### New Execution Environment XLT 9.x

Load testing in XTC is performed using XLT, our load and performance testing tool. Recently, Xceptance released a new major version 9 of XLT. This version brings new features, but also incompatible changes, so you may need to migrate your existing load test suites to XLT 9. Please refer to the [XLT 9 Release Notes]({{< relref "/xlt/release-notes/9_0_x" >}}) to learn what is new and what migration steps are required.

Because migrating your load test suites to XLT 9 may take some time, XTC gives you a limited time to choose between the previous XLT 8.x execution environment and the new XLT 9.x execution environment. This means that while you can continue your current load testing activities uninterrupted, you should also plan and execute the migration of your test suites in a timely manner. Note that **in July 2025, the previous XLT 8.x execution environment will be retired** and the new 9.x execution environment will be the only one available.

XTC helps manage this transition. Project administrators can specify which version of XLT should be the default in the project settings. Go to *Project > Configuration > Environment > Default Execution Environment* and select an XLT version. You will want to adjust this setting when you start a new project or when you finish migrating your test suite. Note that the default version is effective when creating a new load test, but not when duplicating an existing one.

Testers can override this default for a particular load test in the settings of that load test. Open *Machines > Common Machine Configuration* and select the desired version of the execution environment. Use this to test your migrated code (probably on a different Git repository branch) with the new version before switching to that version in general.

Currently available XLT execution environments:

* XLT 8.x → [8.6.0]({{< relref "/xlt/release-notes/8_6_x" >}}) (deprecated, will be **retired in July, 2025**)
* XLT 9.x → [9.0.0]({{< relref "/xlt/release-notes/9_0_x" >}}) (**[migration needed]({{< relref "/xlt/release-notes/9_0_x#test-suite-migration" >}})**)


## Monitoring

* The monitoring agents that run your monitoring scenarios have been updated. They now include:
    * Java 21: Your test scenarios will be compiled and run with this version of Java, but Java 21 respects a lower source/target level in pom.xml, so no migration steps are expected.
    * Geckodriver 0.36: Better support if you are using Firefox to run your test scenarios.
* Minor UI improvements. 


## Platform

* If you open XTC frequently and belong to many organizations and projects, you will notice that the XTC application has become much faster to load.
* When displaying durations such as "1 hour and 30 minutes and 30 seconds", XTC now uses SI-compliant time units such as "1 h 30 min 30 s".
